By this appeal Mr and Mrs Hancock seek to show that the redemption of the loan notes, issued to them in connection with the sale of their shares in their company, Blubeckers Ltd, fell outside the charge to capital gains tax (CGT) by virtue of the exemption in section 115 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 (TCGA) for disposals of qualifying corporate bonds (QCBs).
QCBs are essentially sterling only bonds (see TCGA, section 117).
The noteworthy feature for present purposes of the redemption process was that, following the reorganisation, some of the loan notes issued as consideration were converted into QCBs.
TCGA confers rollover relief on the disposal of securities as part of a reorganisation, ie it brings securities issued as consideration into charge for CGT purposes but defers the tax until their subsequent realisation.
This is less favourable to the taxpayer than the exemption in TCGA, section 115.
The roll over provisions constitute a carve out from the exemption in TCGA, section 115.
They extend to certain conversions involving QCBs.
The appellants seek to fall outside that carve out (and thus within the exemption in TCGA, section 115).
The Court of Appeal (Lewison, Kitchin and Floyd LJJ) rejected the appellants claim: [2017] 1 WLR 4717.
They considered that, although the wording of the carve out could be read literally in favour of the taxpayers, that result would be contrary to Parliaments intention.
Therefore, the appellants claim for relief failed.
Instead, they were entitled to rollover relief deferring tax to redemption.
The legislative and factual framework in more detail
For CGT purposes, there must be a relevant disposal of a relevant asset by persons chargeable to tax resulting in a gain which is chargeable for capital gains tax purposes.
In this case, the appellants undoubtedly made a gain when they exchanged their shares in Blubeckers Ltd for redeemable loan notes (with a provision for an earn out under which further loan notes would, as in the event happened, be issued, dependent on the performance of the business).
This transaction was a reorganisation under TCGA, section 126.
Rollover relief was available under TCGA, section 127.
The appellants structured the disposal of their Blubeckers shares in three stages.
Stage 1 was the exchange of Blubeckers shares for Lionheart notes, which, being convertible into foreign currency, were not QCBs.
At Stage 2, the terms of some of those notes were varied so that they became QCBs.
At Stage 3, both sets of notes (QCBs and non QCBs) were, together and without distinction, converted into one series of secured discounted loan notes (SLNs), which were QCBs.
The SLNs were subsequently redeemed for cash.
It is said to be the result of the completion of Stages 2 and 3 that the appellants are not chargeable to CGT.
The exact nominal amount of loan notes converted into QCBs does not matter in that, on the appellants argument, it was sufficient if the QCB element of the conversion was the smallest denomination (say 1).
Rollover relief is available for reorganisations resulting in the issue of securities such as shares.
TCGA, section 132, as amended by section 88(2) of the Finance Act 1997, by extending that relief to a conversion of securities, following a reorganisation, in or out of a QCB, equates the relief for such a conversion with that available for a reorganisation of share capital: 132