 coherent.
Discussion
It is common ground that, if the conversion at Stage 3 involved separate conversions of the QCBs and the non QCBs, the appeal must fail.
The question whether there was a single conversion or two separate conversions must be a question of applying the provisions of TCGA to the facts.
The answer is not mandated in the appellants favour by the fact that they utilised a single transaction.
Plainly, section 116(1)(b) contemplates the possibility of a single transaction which involves a pre conversion holding of both QCBs and non QCBs, and this, coupled with the fact that the Court of Appeals interpretation renders the words or include appearing in section 116(1)(b) otiose are powerful arguments in support of the appellants construction.
However, the appellants interpretation result would be inexplicable in terms of the policy expressed in these provisions, which is to enable all relevant reorganisations to benefit from the same rollover relief.
Taxpayers could avoid those provisions with extreme ease if the appellants are right.
There would be nothing to prevent them from using the occasion of a minimal conversion (say 1 nominal QCB) following a reorganisation and obtaining relief from CGT which was plainly contrary to and inconsistent with that which was intended to apply to a conversion connected to a reorganisation.
In reality, by looking to the fiscal policy behind the scheme, both Floyd and Lewison LJJ applied a purposive approach.
I need not say more about the purposive approach in general, save that Lewison LJ seemed to draw a distinction between the policy of TCGA in its entirety and that part of the Act which deals with corporate reorganisations (para 82).
This is not easy to follow as the policy of the Act does not materially add to the policy of the relevant sections for present purposes.
Floyd and Lewison LJJ did not give any meaning to the words or include in section 116(1)(b), but as I see it this was appropriate because in section 132(3), as the Upper Tribunal pointed out, it is clear that the intention of Parliament was that each security converted into a QCB should be viewed as a separate conversion (which amounts to the same thing as regarding the conversion in this case as consisting of two conversions, one of QCBs and one of non QCBs).
Moreover, it is not an objection that section 127 contemplates a single asset (see para 5 above), because Parliament has required sections 127 to 131 to be applied with necessary adaptations.
In those circumstances the clear words principle is observed in the present case.
Floyd and Lewison LJJ also relied on the principle in Luke v Inland Revenue Comrs [1963] AC 557.
This enables the court, when interpreting a statute, to adopt (my words) a strained interpretation in place of one which would be contrary to the clear intention of Parliament.
This principle in Luke can apply even to a tax statute.
The clear words principle relied on by Mr Sherry does not, as Lord Wilberforce pointed out, confine the courts to a literal interpretation.
However, the circumstances in which the principle in Luke can be applied must be limited, for example, to those where there is not simply some inconsistency with evident Parliamentary intention but some clear contradiction with it.
Moreover, the intention of Parliament must be clearly found on the wording of the legislation.
The particular issue in Luke illustrates the nature of this principle: on the ordinary meaning of the Income Tax Act 1952, section 161, enacted to prevent tax avoidance by employers meeting expenses for their employees, a director became liable to be taxed as part of his remuneration on the cost of repairs executed by his employer on a