).
The words or include (providing the option of a single conversion) did not mean that there could be such a conversion (para 69).
The statutory fiction in section 127 had to be restricted to avoid an unintended result (para 70).
The additional words or include were an isolated drafting anomaly: the appellants argument would produce an even greater anomaly (para 71).
The wording of section 116(3) and (4) which use the word constitute was consistent with the conclusion that mixed conversions were not within section 116(1)(b) (para 73).
Lewison LJ agreed.
He gave additional reasons.
He placed greater weight on the purposive approach holding that necessary adaptations could include adaptations necessary to give effect to the policy of the statutory scheme (para 82).
He too applied Jenks (para 84) and Luke v Inland Revenue Comrs (para 88).
This enabled him to disregard the words or include in section 116 in the circumstances of this case.
Kitchin LJ agreed with both judgments.
Submissions on this appeal
Mr Michael Sherry, for the appellants, repeats the arguments on interpretation that were considered by the Court of Appeal in their judgment.
He compares section 116 with section 135, which I have not mentioned above as it deals with another form of reorganisation to which Parliament has also directed that sections 127 to 131 should apply with necessary adaptations, so that the fact that it may favour the single asset approach would not be determinative in relation to section 116.
A new factor on which he relies is the absence of any statutory provision for apportioning consideration where, as here, the QCBs and non QCBs have been converted together without any allocation of the price.
But that is a matter of mechanics and no doubt the allocation could be established by evidence.
Mr Sherry emphasises the principle against taxation without clear words (the clear words principle), which can be found in the speech of Lord Wilberforce in Ramsay [1982] AC 300, 323: A subject is only to be taxed upon clear words, not upon intendment or upon the equity of an Act.
Any taxing Act of Parliament is to be construed in accordance with this principle.
What are clear words is to be ascertained upon normal principles: these do not confine the courts to literal interpretation.
There may, indeed should, be considered the context and scheme of the relevant Act as a whole, and its purpose may, indeed should, be regarded: see Inland Revenue Comrs v Wesleyan and General Assurance Society (1946) 30 TC 11, 16 per Lord Greene MR and: Mangin v Inland Revenue Comr [1971] AC 739, 746 per Lord Donovan.
The relevant Act in these cases is the Finance Act 1965, the purpose of which is to impose a tax on gains less allowable losses, arising from disposals.
So, submits Mr Sherry, it goes too far to treat the transaction in issue as two conversions.
There was here a single conversion and that was the legal nature of what has happened.
But the answer to his reliance on the passage set out above from the speech of Lord Wilberforce in Ramsay is that the clear words principle is not infringed if, fairly and properly construed, no doubt remains as to the meaning of section 116(1)(b).
Moreover, there is no question of re characterising the parties transaction.
It is simply a matter of deciding what is a conversion for the purposes of the statutory scheme.
Mr Michael Gibbon QC, for HMRC, submits that the Court of Appeals interpretation is principled and uses a conventional approach.
The statutory scheme as so construed is fair to taxpayers generally and