 contend that Limb B also cannot apply because the (aggregate) original holding prior to conversion included QCBs.
The reasoning of the Upper Tribunal and the Court of Appeal
The Upper Tribunal, allowing an appeal from the First tier Tribunal, held that the conversion of securities at the third stage comprised separate transactions in relation to each share converted.
As the First tier Tribunal had pointed out, the relief under section 116 for QCBs had been intended to promote the market in sterling bonds and so the interpretation favoured by the appellants would go well beyond that objective.
The Upper Tribunal also noted that in TCGA, section 132 Parliament had defined conversion in relation to transactions involving QCBs separately in relation to each security (see para 4 above).
The Upper Tribunal also rejected HMRCs argument based on WT Ramsay Ltd v Inland Revenue Comrs [1982] AC 300, but we are not concerned with that as HMRC has not appealed against that ruling.
The appellants appealed to the Court of Appeal.
They repeated their argument that Stage 3 constituted a single conversion of the loan notes (including QCBs) into QCBs, and so neither limb of TCGA, section 116(1)(b) applied.
HMRC responded that Stage 3 was not one transaction but two: the first transaction (the conversion of the non QCBs into QCBs) fell within Limb A and the second (the conversion of the QCBs into SLNs, which were also QCBs) was outside section 116(1)(b), but (as appears from para 12 of Floyd LJs judgment) the appellants accepted that the variation of the terms of these loan notes at Stage 2 was a conversion which carried rollover relief so that, when those bonds were redeemed, a charge to CGT on the held over gain on these bonds was triggered.
Seeking guidance as to the correct approach on statutory interpretation Floyd LJ (at para 45 of his judgment) cited, among other authorities, a passage from the judgment of Neuberger J in Jenks v Dickinson [1997] STC 853, concerning QCBs and the predecessor of TCGA.
That case raised the issue whether a provision which extended the meaning of QCBs with retrospective effect relieved the taxpayer of an intervening accrued tax charge on the sale of shares into which the securities which had retrospectively become QCBs had been converted.
Neuberger J held that it did not.
In the passage cited by Floyd LJ, Neuberger J held that the taxpayers construction was: contradictory to the evident purpose of the relevant statutory provisions, viewed as a whole, viz that capital gains made on [QCBs] should be exempt from tax, whereas capital gains made on shares should be subject to tax.
In the circumstances, principle, common sense, and authority show that the court is entitled, and indeed bound, to . adopt some other possible meaning if it exists (to quote Lord Reid: see [Luke v Inland Revenue Comrs] [1963] AC 557, 579).
Floyd LJ pointed out that section 132 did not give as an example of a (single) conversion a conversion of different classes of bonds (para 65).
The process of applying sections 127 to 131 as required by the opening words of section 132 allowed for necessary adaptations (para 63), and so there could be aggregation of securities for the purposes of some conversions but not others.
The effect of the appellants argument would be that the non QCBs would escape the charge to CGT.
This was contradictory to the evident purpose of the statutory scheme.
The conversion of the two classes of loan notes could and should therefore be treated separately (para 68