It was a distinction confirmed by photographs placed before the tribunal.
The doctor pointed out that the scars on the back were long, narrow and parallel and that in particular their edges were precise.
This perfect branding, as he described it, could not have occurred while KV was conscious: even if, when conscious, he had been forcibly held down, his reflex reaction to pain would have blurred the edges of the area burnt and thus of the resulting scars.
But those on the arm were different.
Here the branding was not perfect.
The edges were blurred.
They were not parallel to each other.
Their length, their width and their shape were different from each other; and they did not replicate the shape of a rod.
The different presentation of the scars on the arm from those on the back indicated to him that the former represented burns caused while KV had not been unconscious and so had been reacting to the pain by reflex flinching and other movements which had blurred the branding effect.
And here the doctor proceeded to note that KV had indeed consistently maintained that he had not been unconscious when his arms had been burnt but had then, as a result, fallen into unconsciousness before his back was burnt.
Dr Zapata Bravos conclusion was that his clinical findings were highly consistent with KVs account of torture; and that the other hypothesis, namely of wounding SIBP, was unlikely.
Istanbul Protocol
Dr Zapata Bravo explained in his report that his training by the HBF in relation to the effects of suggested incidents of torture had been in accordance with the Manual on the Effective Investigation and Documentation of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, usually known as the Istanbul Protocol, submitted to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in 1999.
As was said in its introduction, the manual was the result of three years of effort on the part of more than 75 experts in law, health and human rights, representing 40 organisations from 15 countries.
The principles of effective investigation etc were collected into Annex 1 of the manual and were adopted by the General Assembly of the UN on 4 December 2000 (Resolution 55/89).
The manual provides as follows: 187.
For each lesion and for the overall pattern of lesions, the physician should indicate the degree of consistency between it and the attribution given by the patient.
The following terms are generally used: (a) Not consistent: the lesion could not have been caused by the trauma described; (b) Consistent with: the lesion could have been caused by the trauma described, but it is non specific and there are many other possible causes; (c) Highly consistent: the lesion could have been caused by the trauma described, and there are few other possible causes; (d) Typical of: this is an appearance that is usually found with this type of trauma, but there are other possible causes; (e) Diagnostic of: this appearance could not have been caused in any other way than that described. 188.
Ultimately, it is the overall evaluation of all lesions and not the consistency of each lesion with a particular form of
torture that is important in assessing the torture story
It follows that, in concluding that his clinical findings were highly consistent with KVs account of torture, Dr Zapata Bravo was framing his conclusion in accordance with para 187(c) of the manual.
The Controversial Observations
The tribunal did not suggest that, in concluding that his findings were highly consistent with KVs account of torture, Dr Zapata Bravo had exceeded the limit of his role.
On the contrary, it cited authority to the effect that one of the functions of a medical report in relation to scars was to offer a clear statement in relation to their consistency with the history given.
Nor did the