 significance which he had attached to it.
The Home Secretary correctly invites us to be realistic.
We must accept that the drawing of a fine tooth comb through any judicial survey of complex evidence written across 368 paragraphs is likely to discover a tangle in it.
In para 12 of his judgment in SS (Iran) v Secretary of State for the Home Department [2008] EWCA Civ 310 Lord Neuberger of Abbotsbury observed that appeal courts should be particularly wary of interfering with evidential conclusions made in relation to claims for asylum, in which, among other things, the paucity and fragility of the evidence are likely to be acute.
On the other hand he added: given the potentially severe, even catastrophic, consequences of a mistaken rejection of an appeal, where fear of ill treatment (or worse) is alleged, it is plainly right to scrutinise any [such] decision very carefully Paragraph 348 of the tribunals determination contains more than a minor tangle.
It represents its reason for rejecting Dr Zapata Bravos categorisation of high consistency in accordance with para 187(c) of the Istanbul Protocol.
The tribunal there mislaid the difference in the scars on the arm to which he had attached such significance.
But it needed to address it.
Elias LJ said in para 108: In my judgment the [tribunal] had to find an explanation for the different appearance of these scars and it could not characterise his account of being tortured as implausible without having done so.
That was his judgment.
It should also, I suggest, be ours.
The third point arises out of the tribunals final conclusion that there were only two real possibilities, namely that KV had been tortured and that his wounding was SIBP.
The point is that the likelihood of both possibilities had to be compared with each other before either of them could be discounted.
And the contention is that, when it came to compile the final section of its determination entitled Assessment of the Appellants Appeal, and in particular the final subsection, entitled Conclusion, in which it discounted the possibility of torture, the tribunal made no reference to the likelihood, or rather on any view the unlikelihood, that the wounding was SIBP.
That there was extensive torture by state forces in Sri Lanka in 2009 was well established in the evidence before the tribunal.
For example at para 187 of its determination it quoted an EU report dated October 2009 as follows: International reports indicate continual and well documented allegations of widespread torture and ill treatment committed by state forces (police and military) particularly in situations of detention.
The UN Special Rapporteur on Torture has expressed shock at the severity of the torture employed by the army, which includes burning with soldering irons and suspension of detainees by their thumbs.
By contrast, evidence of wounding SIBP on the part of asylum seekers was almost non existent.
The tribunal referred at para 11 to just one unreported decision in 2011 in which it had concluded that the wounding had been SIBP.
Dr Zapata Bravo said that, in the field of immigration, neither he nor any colleague to whom he had spoken had experience of wounding SIBP.
He contrasted it with tribal and ritual scarring, administered with social consent, which no one had suggested to account for the scars in question.
His and the other medical evidence before the tribunal indicated that the wounding of a body which that person deliberately achieved by his own hand was slightly less uncommon; but that there were parts of a body which that person could not burn without assistance and that they certainly included the burnt parts of KVs back.
Dr Zapata Bravo said that in the literature he had found only one statement referable to a persons burning of himself