KV, a national of Sri Lanka and of Tamil ethnicity, comes to the UK and claims asylum.
He alleges that he was tortured by government forces there in the course of detention on suspicion of association with the LTTE (the Tamil Tigers).
He has five long scars on his back and two shorter scars on his right arm, all of which were on any view the product of branding with a hot metal rod.
He contends that they are evidence of the torture.
But the tribunal in effect concludes that the scars represent wounding which was Self Inflicted By Proxy (wounding SIBP), in other words which was inflicted by another person at KVs own invitation in an attempt on his part to manufacture evidence in support of a false asylum claim.
It dismisses his appeal against the refusal of asylum.
By a majority the Court of Appeal, [2017] EWCA Civ 119, [2017] 4 WLR 88, dismisses his further appeal and, in doing so, makes controversial observations about the limit of the role of a medical expert in contributing to the evidence referable to a claim of torture.
Now KV brings a third appeal to this court.
This court must address the Court of Appeals controversial observations.
They raise the point of general public importance which precipitated the grant to him of permission to appeal.
But the disposal of his appeal will instead depend on whether he persuades us of an error of law, in particular an error of reasoning, in the dismissal of his appeal on the part of the tribunal.
Background
KV was born in 1986 and lived in Sri Lanka until his arrival in the UK in February 2011.
He made his claim for asylum promptly.
In March 2011 he was interviewed on behalf of the Home Office.
His account was that he had worked in his fathers jewellery shop; (a) that in 2003 he had begun to assist the Tamil Tigers in valuing (b) jewellery which its members had brought to him and, with his father, in melting their gold at their request; (c) continued to assist in those ways until 2008; that, while never having been a member of the Tamil Tigers, he had (d) that government forces had arrested him in May 2009 and detained him in a camp until, with outside help, he had escaped from it in February 2011; and that during his detention they had beaten him with gun butts or (e) wooden poles every few days and, having learnt of the assistance given by him to the Tamil Tigers in respect of its gold and other valuables, had thereby sought to extract information from him about where they were kept.
At the interview KV produced photographs of the scars on his back and right arm which, he said, were the product of an occasion of torture in about August 2009.
It is important to note that in this initial interview his account, to which he has consistently adhered, was that his captors had first applied hot metal rods to his arm while he was conscious; that the pain had rendered him unconscious; that, while he remained unconscious, they had applied the rods to his back; that, when he regained consciousness, they had further increased the severity of the pain by pouring petrol on him and threatening to set him alight; and that some three months had elapsed before the skin had healed into scars.
Later in March 2011 the Home Office refused KVs claim for asylum.
It identified various perceived inconsistences in his account; and, in relation to his scars, it noted that he had produced no medical evidence in support of his account of torture, which it did not accept.
In May 2011 the First tier Tribunal dismissed KVs appeal against the refusal of his claim for asylum.
But the Upper Tribunal held that