orably points to SIBP, but given that we have concluded it is left as the only real possibility that we have not been able to discount, taking the evidence as a whole, we are satisfied that he has not shown his account is reasonably likely to be true.
Thereupon the tribunal volunteered an emphatic rejection of almost all of KVs evidence: 365.
We find that after 2003 he remained in Colombo and at no stage then or thereafter did he come to the adverse attention of the army or police before coming to the UK.
One should respectfully place a question mark against the tribunals disclaimer in para 364 of any conclusion that the evidence inexorably pointed to wounding SIBP.
If your inquiry into the disputed circumstances of a past event leads you to conclude that there are only two real possibilities and if you then proceed to reject one of them (indeed in this case to reject it in terms which could not be more absolute: see para 365), you are necessarily concluding that the other real possibility represents what happened.
Evidence of Dr Zapata Bravo
KV presented several pieces of medical evidence to the tribunal but much of it proved to be of limited use.
The most important was that given by Dr Zapata Bravo.
He was qualified both in internal (particularly chest) medicine and in psychiatry; had clinical experience of surgery; and had been subject to the apparently rigorous training of the HBF in the assessment of the physical and psychological effects of torture.
On examination of KV in October 2013 Dr Zapata Bravo noted five scars on his back and two scars on his right upper arm, more particularly described as follows: (a) a flat scar on the left side of the back, just below the shoulder blade, measuring 130 x 11 mm and in the shape of an elongated and narrow parallelogram; (b) (a), slightly shorter but in the same shape; a flat scar on the right side of the back, at a level equivalent to that at a flat scar on the right side of the back, underneath that at (b), shorter a flat scar on the right side of the back, just below the waist, a flat scar on the left side of the back, underneath that at (a), shorter a slightly raised scar on the right upper arm, measuring 50 x 15 mm in a flat scar on the right upper arm, below that at (f), but longer (75mm) (c) but parallel to it and in the same shape; (d) but parallel to it and in the same shape; (e) underneath that at (d), shorter but parallel to it and in the same shape; (f) the shape of a parallelogram; and (g) and in a different, oval, shape.
It was the opinion of Dr Zapata Bravo that the scars at (a) and (b) had in the past been joined together, as had the scars at (c) and (d), but that in each case they had become separated when the scarring in the small of the back, where the injury had been less severe, had disappeared.
Thus, he reasoned, there had originally been five rather than seven scars, reflective of five burns caused (he had no doubt) by application of a hot metal rod.
He added that the scar at (f) was the only raised scar and indicated burning even more profound than elsewhere.
He could not be more precise than to say that KV had sustained the injuries prior to September 2010.
For present purposes the most important part of the evidence of Dr Zapata Bravo was the distinction which he drew between the scars at (a) to (e) on the back and those at (f) and (g) on the arm.
