 Home Secretary submit to the Court of Appeal that Dr Zapata Bravos conclusion had been in any way professionally inappropriate.
But in the Court of Appeal Sales LJ (with whom Patten LJ agreed) made observations to the opposite effect.
He said: 33.
In making this latter statement [that his findings were highly consistent with KVs story], Dr Zapata Bravo seems to have moved from an assessment whether the relevant lesions (ie the burns scars) could have been caused by the trauma described (ie the application of a heated metal rod) a matter on which he was capable of giving a view based on his medical expertise and which he had already addressed by saying that the scars were diagnostic of such trauma into an expression of view that he was disposed to accept the claimants account of how heated metal rods came to be applied to his skin.
Dr Zapata Bravo seemed to use the Istanbul Protocol highly consistent classification, but inappropriately in relation to the claimants story, which is something different from the trauma to which that classification is expressly directed. 34.
In my judgment, at this point he rather trespassed beyond his remit as an expert medical witness into the area where it was for the UT to make an assessment of all the evidence 35. [P]ara 187 of the Protocol focuses, appropriately in my view, on the question of the likely immediate cause of a lesion or wound on the body of the complainant (in our case, application of a heated metal rod to the claimants skin), which is a proper subject for expert medical evidence [I]n any event, where a medical expert is providing evidence for use in the tribunal, they should seek guidance primarily from the relevant Tribunal Rules and Practice Direction In the course of a dissenting judgment in which he concluded that the reasoning of the tribunal had been unsatisfactory and that the court should have remitted KVs appeal to it for fresh determination, Elias LJ in para 110 disagreed with the observations of the majority that Dr Zapata Bravo had exceeded the proper limit of his role in the manner alleged.
In this further appeal the Home Secretary has felt unable to defend the observations of the majority and, with the benefit of the full argument which the Court of Appeal never enjoyed, nor, to be fair to counsel, never invited, it is clear that they are erroneous.
In their supremely difficult and important task, exemplified by the present case, of analysing whether scars have been established to be the result of torture, decision makers can legitimately receive assistance, often valuable, from medical experts who feel able, within their expertise, to offer an opinion about the consistency of their findings with the asylum seekers account of the circumstances in which the scarring was sustained, not limited to the mechanism by which it was sustained.
Had the contribution of Dr Zapata Bravo been limited to confirming KVs account that the scarring was caused by application of a hot metal rod, it would have added little to what was already a likely conclusion.
But, when he proceeded to correlate his findings of a difference in the presentation of the scars on the back and those on the arm with KVs account of how the alleged torture had proceeded, he was giving assistance to the tribunal of significant potential value; and it never suggested that he lacked the expertise with which to do so.
In para 33 of his judgment, set out in para 19 above, Sales LJ suggested that the references in para 187 of the Istanbul Protocol to the trauma described relate only to the mechanism by which the injury is said to have been caused.
That is too narrow a construction of the word trauma.
It is clear that in the protocol the word also covers the wider circumstances in which the injury is said to have been sustained.
Paragraph 188 of the protocol, set out in para 16 above