: it was that he might possibly have done so if he had been in a bad state of health, with loss of weight as a result of malnutrition, and if he had not eaten nor taken fluids.
Another expert, Dr Allam, who had been asked a general question about the usual speed of recovery of consciousness, had already written, in fair conformity with Dr Zapata Bravos later hesitant hypothesis, that an individuals state of health could affect the speed of recovery.
In the end, however, the tribunal found it to be an unlikely hypothesis that KV did not regain consciousness for the period of about ten minutes while the alleged torturers inflicted the burns on the back.
Although the tribunal there attached central importance to an estimate of ten minutes given off the cuff and stressed to have been speculative, and although it seems altogether to have discounted Dr Zapata Bravos hesitant explanation for more prolonged unconsciousness, it is in my opinion hard for an appellate court to rule that it had not been entitled to conclude that this part of KVs account was unlikely.
Its conclusion on this point cannot, however, mark the end of an overall inquiry into the existence of a real possibility that the scars reflected torture.
The second point relates to Dr Zapata Bravos pivotal opinion that the different, blurred, edges to the scars on the arm indicated the infliction of burns during consciousness, which correlated with the account which KV had always given.
The problem arises from the reasons given by the tribunal for rejecting the conclusion which he based upon it.
It said: 348. we do not consider that Dr Zapata Bravos conclusion that the appellants scarring was highly consistent with his account of having been tortured is justified when account is taken of the doctors own evidence indicating (i) it was clinically unlikely, given their precise edging, that his scarring could have been inflicted unless he was unconscious; and (ii) that it was clinically unlikely a person could remain unconscious throughout multiple applications of hot metal rods to his arms and back, unless he was anaesthetised The paragraph raises big questions.
Why does the summary of the doctors evidence at (i), in relation to precise edging, fail to limit the reference to scarring to scarring on the back? Why does the summary of his evidence at (ii) address a hypothesis, contrary to that which he (and KV himself) had advanced, that he had remained unconscious throughout the application of the rods to his arms as well as to his back? By the time it came to draft para 348, had the tribunal mislaid the pivotal point?
The answer given to these questions by Sales LJ in para 21(ii) of his judgment was that in his oral evidence Dr Zapata Bravo must have said or have appeared to say that the scars on the arm as well as on the back were precisely defined and that complete analgesia would have been required to produce all of them.
Sales LJ observed that KV had failed to provide the court with a transcript of the doctors oral evidence and that, without a transcript, there was no basis for criticising the tribunal.
But it is dangerous for us who work in appeal courts to assume that the answer to an apparent mistake at first instance must lie in oral evidence not recorded in the judgment and not transcribed for the purposes of the appeal.
The court of first instance should be expected to record the oral evidence on which it places reliance.
Stung by the observations of Sales LJ, KV has provided to this court for the purposes of his further appeal a transcript of all the oral evidence given to the tribunal; and with great respect, it is clear and agreed that in his oral evidence Dr Zapata Bravo never wavered from his clinical findings of a difference in the scars as between the back and the arm, nor from the