 an error of law had vitiated the dismissal and it directed that the appeal be reheard.
It then identified the appeal as an appropriate vehicle for the issue of general guidance to medical experts invited to analyse scars allegedly caused by torture, in particular if suggested on the contrary to represent wounding SIBP; and so the appeal was directed to be heard by a panel of judges in the Upper Tribunal itself.
In the event the appeal was heard over three days by three of the most experienced judges of the Upper Tribunal, namely Judge Storey, Judge Dawson and Judge Kopieczek.
The tribunal (as the Upper Tribunal will hereafter be described) permitted a charity, the Helen Bamber Foundation (the HBF), to intervene in the appeal.
The HBF is recognised by the Home Office as a responsible provider both of expert support and treatment to those who have suffered torture or other serious harm and of medical reports intended to help UK public authorities to determine whether allegations of such suffering are true.
On 22 May 2014 the tribunal explained its dismissal of KVs appeal in a mammoth document, entitled Determination and Reasons which contains 368 paragraphs on 78 pages, [2014] UKUT 230 (IAC).
Massive effort on the part of each of the three judges plainly underlies the determination.
As a result of it the tribunal issued six propositions of general guidance to those preparing medico legal reports in relation to scars borne by asylum seekers who allege them to be the product of torture and particularly when, on the contrary, wounding SIBP is more than a fanciful possibility.
The Court of Appeal, however, considered that wounding SIBP was generally so unlikely that it was inappropriate to issue the guidance.
In particular the court disagreed with the apparent suggestion in the guidance that medical experts should routinely consider it even when not canvassed by the Home Office as being a reasonably possible explanation of the asylum seekers scarring.
So the court directed that the tribunals guidance be treated as of no effect.
This court has not been invited to review whether it was right to jettison it.
The tribunal subjected KVs evidence, together with that of his two brothers and his uncle, to appropriately rigorous analysis.
It recognised that throughout the three years since his arrival in the UK his accounts of his experiences in Sri Lanka had been broadly consistent and that background country information, including that set out in para 32 below, had confirmed the existence of a practice on the part of state forces there of torturing detainees by burning them with soldering irons.
It nevertheless concluded that various aspects of his evidence were unconvincing, including in relation to his alleged work for the Tamil Tigers, the frequency and severity of his alleged beatings during the years of his alleged detention, the circumstances of his alleged escape and the surprising immunity of his father from arrest and detention.
But the tribunals substantial reservations about KVs credibility recede into the background in the light of its helpful identification of the central issue as follows: 337.
If the appellants scarring was caused by torture in detention then the possibility of the appellants account being true, notwithstanding the identified shortcomings, becomes a real one.
The tribunal thereupon embarked upon a detailed analysis of the medical evidence referable to KVs scarring, to some of which it will be necessary to return.
Its conclusion was as follows: 364.
In relation to the medical evidence, we have found that whilst it assisted in eliminating some possible causes, it left us with only two that were real possibilities: that the appellant was tortured as claimed; that his scarring was SIBP.
Of these two real possibilities, we have found, on analysis, that the former claim does not withstand scrutiny.
Certainly we cannot say in his case that the evidence inex