But there is no inconsistency between that Practice Direction and the protocol.
Of course the expert must comply with the Practice Direction, including in particular the requirement in paras 10.2 and 10.4 not to offer an opinion outside the area of his expertise.
But the Practice Direction does not address the specific area addressed by the protocol, namely the investigation of torture.
When invited to investigate an allegation of torture, the expert should therefore recognise the protocol as equally authoritative in accordance with the Court of Appeals decision in the SA (Somalia) case, cited in para 22 above.
But Ms Harrison QC on behalf of the HBF made a further submission to the Court of Appeal, repeated before us, that in a case of alleged torture experts are entitled to express the view that they believe that the person has suffered the torture.
She cited R (AM) v Secretary of State for the Home Department [2012] EWCA Civ 521, in which Rix LJ, with whom Moses LJ and Briggs J agreed, observed in paras 29 and 30 that the expert had believed the appellants account of torture and that her belief constituted independent evidence of torture which had disentitled the Home Secretary from continuing to detain her.
It is not clear from the judgment of Rix LJ whether the expert had in terms said that she believed the appellant.
But, as he pointed out in para 15, she had, when categorising her findings in accordance with para 187 of the Istanbul Protocol (set out in para 16 above), in effect chosen the most positive category, namely (e) Diagnostic of could not have been caused in any other way than that described in relation to one of the scars.
Such a diagnosis was indeed tantamount to belief in the accuracy of the description of how that scar had been caused.
A corresponding placement of a conclusion within the most negative category, namely (a) Not consistent could not have been caused by the trauma described would be tantamount to disbelief in the accuracy of the description.
Where, however, more usually, the expert places his or her conclusion within categories (b), (c) or (d), there is no room, nor sanction in the protocol, for the expression of belief or otherwise in the account given.
The conclusion about credibility always rests with the decision maker following a critical survey of all the evidence, even when the expert has placed his conclusion within category (a) or (e).
Indeed, in an asylum case in which the question is only whether there is a real possibility that the account given is true, not even the decision maker is required to arrive at an overall belief in its truth; the inquiry is into credibility only of a partial character.
Disposal of the Appeal
In his dissenting judgment Elias LJ set out in detail his concerns about the reasoning of the tribunal in rejecting KVs claim of torture.
In an attempt not to overburden this present judgment with analogous factual detail, I will confine it to a review of three main points.
The first relates to KVs account, confirmed by the appearance of the scars on the back, that the burns there had been inflicted while he was unconscious.
He said that the burns on his arms had made him lose consciousness.
But the bigger question, rightly addressed by the tribunal, was how he had remained unconscious while the burns on the back were inflicted.
This in turn raised the question: how long would it have taken to inflict the burns on the back? In their written reports none of the experts had addressed this question.
But, at the end of his oral evidence by telephone, Dr Zapata Bravo, when asked, suggested that it would have taken ten minutes to inflict the burns on the back but added that his suggestion was speculative.
But could KV have remained unconscious for ten minutes? The doctors answer was hesitant