 for human consumption on its merits.
The Justice of the Peace can (and should) hear expert evidence to determine the matter.
While only the OV can apply the health mark, on the claimant appellants interpretation of section 9 the Justice of the Peace can make a ruling which may result in an award of compensation if the mark is wrongly withheld. (4) At the point when the OV inspects the meat and forms the opinion that it is unfit for human consumption and declares it as such, the carcass is still food within the meaning of the above Regulations.
It has not become an animal by product within the meaning of Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009, laying down health rules as regards animal by products.
Animal by products are defined as entire bodies or parts of animals, products of animal origin or other products obtained from animals, which are not intended for human consumption (article 3.1).
Until the process of condemnation is complete, the FBO still intends the carcass for human consumption. (5) Providing a mechanism for judicial oversight of the process of condemnation is required by article 17 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (CFR) (equivalent to article 1 of the First Protocol to the ECHR) which protects the right to property, read with article 47, which requires an effective judicial remedy for everyone whose rights and freedoms guaranteed by community law are violated.
It would be a violation if an FBO were deprived of the property in the carcass or required to dispose of the carcass in such a way as to render it valueless without proper justification or compensation.
Judicial review does not constitute an appeal which satisfies the (6) requirement in Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 that there be a right of appeal.
Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 requires that there be a right of appeal against the decision of an OV on the merits going beyond what is possible in judicial review.
Against this, the competent authority, the FSA, argues that it would be incompatible with the regime established by the Regulations if resort were made to the procedure under section 9 of the 1990 Act in order to challenge the decision of the OV under article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 on its merits.
The FSA accepts that the lawfulness of the decision can be challenged in judicial review proceedings as set out above.
In summary, the FSA asserts that: (1) The requirements of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 are a lex specialis in relation to products of animal origin.
Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 is without prejudice to specific Community provisions regarding official controls (article 1.3).
Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 therefore takes precedence over Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 where it is necessary to do so. (2) There is a distinction between the roles undertaken by the OV under article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 and those undertaken under article 5.
The former concerns the audit of an FBOs general practices and compliance with food hygiene requirements.
It is accepted that article 54 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 is capable of being applied to that role.
However, it should be noted that, despite the wording of recital (43), article 54.3 stops short of positively requiring that there be a right of appeal. (3) The role of inspecting and health marking individual carcasses under article 5 is quite different from the audit role under article 4.
The OV alone (with the assistance permitted under the Regulation) has responsibility for deciding whether or not to apply a health mark, which is a