 that section 9 is to apply for the purpose of those Regulations.
Under section 9, if it appears to an authorised officer of an enforcement authority such as the FSA that food intended for human consumption fails to comply with food safety requirements, he may seize the food and remove it in order to have it dealt with by a Justice of the Peace (who may be either a lay magistrate or a legally qualified District Judge, but who will be local to the slaughterhouse and readily accessible at all hours).
If it appears to the Justice of the Peace, on the basis of such evidence as he considers appropriate, that the food fails to comply with food safety requirements, he shall condemn it and order it to be destroyed at the owners expense.
If he refuses to condemn it, the relevant enforcement authority must compensate the owner for any depreciation in its value resulting from the officers action.
Under section 8(2), food fails to comply with food safety requirements if it is unsafe within the meaning of article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002: ie injurious to health or unfit for human consumption (see para 12 below).
The procedure in section 9 of the 1990 Act is not framed in terms of an appeal from the OVs decision.
It sets out a procedure whereby an officer of a food authority or an enforcement authority can refer the question of destruction of a carcass to a Justice of the Peace for decision.
Normally, we are told, the owner accepts the OVs decision that an animal is not fit for human consumption and voluntarily surrenders it.
But if the owner does not, the claimant appellants say that this procedure provides both (i) a way in which the OV or the FSA can take enforcement action consequent upon the OVs decision and (ii) a means whereby the owner can subject that decision to judicial scrutiny and ask the Justice of the Peace to decide whether or not the carcass did in fact comply with the food safety requirements.
They accept that the Justice of the Peace cannot order the OV to apply a health mark.
However, they argue that the OV can be expected to respect the decision and apply a health mark accordingly.
Further, compensation may be payable under the 1990 Act if the Justice of the Peace refuses to condemn the carcass.
In the claimant appellants view, this procedure has been part of the United Kingdoms food safety regime since the 19th century, and continues to operate under the European Unions food safety regime contained in the suite of Regulations coming into force in 2006.
The FSA agrees that the procedure under section 9 of the 1990 Act would be available to it as one possible means of enforcement if the operator of a slaughterhouse attempted to introduce into the food chain an animal carcass which had not been given a health mark by an OV.
However, it does not accept that this procedure would be suitable, still less obligatory, to resolve a dispute as to whether the carcass is or is not fit for human consumption.
A Justice of the Peace has no power to order an OV to apply a health mark and, moreover, the FSA says that he would have no power under section 9 to do anything other than condemn for disposal a carcass bearing no such mark.
Although not raised by the FSA in argument, the Court observes that it would be open to the operator of a slaughterhouse such as CMS to bring judicial review proceedings in the High Court to challenge the OVs decision that the meat of a carcass was unfit for human consumption, and thus to deny a health mark, or to quash a disposal notice.
The High Court may quash a decision of an OV on any ground which makes the decision unlawful, including if he acts for an improper purpose, fails