On 11 September 2014, the Cleveland Meat Company Ltd (CMC) bought a live bull at the Darlington Farmers Auction Mart for 1,361.20.
The bull was passed fit for slaughter by the Official Veterinarian (OV) stationed at CMCs slaughterhouse.
It was assigned a kill number of 77 and slaughtered.
A post mortem inspection of both carcass and offal was carried out by a Meat Hygiene Inspector (MHI), who identified three abscesses in the offal.
The offal was not retained.
Later that day, the OV inspected the carcass and, after discussion with the MHI, declared the meat unfit for human consumption, because pyaemia was suspected.
Accordingly, the carcass did not acquire a health mark certifying that it was fit for human consumption.
The consequence of this was that it would have been a criminal offence for CMC to seek to sell the carcass (under regulation 19 of the Food Safety and Hygiene (England) Regulations 2013 (the Food Hygiene Regulations)).
CMC took the advice of another veterinary surgeon and challenged the OVs opinion.
It claimed that, in the event of a dispute and its refusal to surrender the carcass voluntarily, the OV would have to seize the carcass under section 9 of the Food Safety Act 1990 (the 1990 Act) and take it before a Justice of the Peace to determine whether or not it ought to be condemned.
The Food Standards Agency (FSA) replied that there was no need for it to use such a procedure.
Having been declared unfit for human consumption by the OV, the carcass should be disposed of as an animal by product.
On 23 September 2014, the OV, acting for the FSA, served on CMC a notice for the disposal of the carcass as an animal by product (the disposal notice) (under regulation 25(2)(a) of the Animal By Products (Enforcement) (England) Regulations 2013 (the Animal By Products Regulations) and Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009).
The disposal notice informed CMC that failure to comply with the notice could result in the Authorised Person under the Regulations arranging for compliance with it at CMCs expense and that it was an offence to obstruct an Authorised Person in carrying out the requirements of the notice.
The disposal notice also stated: You may have a right of appeal against my decision by way of judicial review.
An application for such an appeal should be made promptly and, in any event, generally within three months from the date when the ground for the application first arose.
If you wish to appeal you are advised to consult a solicitor immediately.
These judicial review proceedings are brought by the Association of Independent Meat Suppliers, a trade association acting on behalf of some 150 slaughterhouses, and CMC (the claimant appellants) to challenge the FSAs assertion that it was unnecessary for it to use the procedure set out in section 9 of the 1990 Act and to claim in the alternative that it is incumbent on the United Kingdom to provide some means for challenging the decisions of an OV in such cases.
They failed in the High Court and Court of Appeal and now appeal to this Court.
There are three main issues in the proceedings.
The issues in the case
The first revolves around an issue of domestic law.
Is the procedure contained in section 9 of the 1990 Act available in these circumstances and does it have to be used by the OV or the FSA, if the carcass owner refuses to surrender the carcass voluntarily, so as to afford the carcass owner a means of challenging decisions of the OV with which it disagrees? The Food Hygiene Regulations provide