 operator concerned with written notification of its decision and the reasons for it and information on rights of appeal against such decisions and on the applicable procedure and time limits.
The Court notes that in the French language version this text appears as des informations sur ses droits de recours contre de telles decisions, ainsi que sur la procedure et les dlais applicables and in the German language version the phrase sein Widerspruchsrecht is used.
Article 55 requires member states to lay down the rules on sanctions applicable to infringements of feed and food law and to take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
The sanctions provided for must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
The parties arguments
The claimant appellants argue that the procedure in section 9 of the 1990 Act is applicable in cases such as this and is not incompatible with the regime laid down by the EU Regulations; indeed it or something like it is contemplated by the terms of article 54 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004.
In summary, they assert that: (1) The section 9 procedure was applied during the very similar regime adopted pursuant to the EU Directives before the coming into force of the suite of Regulations referred to above.
There is no evidence that this caused any practical difficulties.
If it was not thought inconsistent with that regime, there is no reason to think it inconsistent with the current regime.
Indeed, in 2006, when the Regulations came into force, the Meat Hygiene Service Manual of Official Controls stated (and continued to state until shortly before these proceedings began) that where the OV was not satisfied that the meat was fit for human consumption and voluntary surrender was not forthcoming, the OV must seize the food under section 9 and take it before a Justice of the Peace for it to be condemned.
At the very least, this is an indication of past practice under the very similar regime which preceded the current EU Regulations and of what the FSA, as competent authority, initially thought the position to be under the Regulations. (2) The official controls in Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 are in addition to the more general provisions in Regulation (EC) No 882/2004.
They are specific to food of animal origin.
But they contain nothing about enforcement and sanctions.
Thus it is not surprising that they do not provide for a right of appeal against the decisions of the OV and competent authority.
Enforcement and sanctions are provided for in Regulation (EC) No 882/2004.
Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 is intended to work in combination with Regulation (EC) No 882/2004.
Recital (43) to Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 indicates that a right of appeal is required in a case such as this.
Articles 54 and 55 are applicable to all kinds of non compliance with Regulation (EC) No 854/2004, including non compliance with article 5 in individual cases as well as the more general non compliance dealt with by article 4.
The references to prohibiting placing on the market and ordering destruction in article 54.2 are clearly apt to deal with non compliance under article 5.
Article 54.3 should apply to action to deal with all kinds of non compliance.
These articles, read together with recital (43) mandate a right of appeal against the OVs decision. (3) There is nothing in any of the Regulations to prohibit a procedure such as that laid down in section 9.
This not only provides a means whereby the competent authority can enforce the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 in relation to non compliance but also provides the operator with a means of challenging the decision of the OV that a carcass is not fit