 hygiene practices.
Article 5 requires member states to ensure that official controls with respect to fresh meat take place in accordance with Annex I.
Under article 5.1, the OV is to carry out inspection tasks in, inter alia, slaughterhouses in accordance with the general requirements of section I, Chapter II of Annex I and the specific requirements of section IV.
Under article 5.2, the health marking of domestic ungulates, such as cattle, is to be carried out in slaughterhouses in accordance with section I, Chapter III of Annex I; the criterion for applying health marks is stated thus: Health marks shall be applied by, or under the responsibility of, the official veterinarian when official controls have not identified any deficiencies that would make the meat unfit for human consumption.
Annex I lays down detailed rules about ante mortem and post mortem inspections, how they are to be done and by whom, the application of health marks and the communication of results.
Chapter IV of section III lays down detailed requirements for the qualifications and skills of Official Veterinarians and their auxiliaries (such as MHIs).
Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 does not define official controls nor does it lay down any specific enforcement measures or sanctions for non compliance with the controls which it mandates.
Article 1.1a provides that it applies in addition to Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 and article 2.2(b)(a) provides that the definitions in Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 shall apply as appropriate.
Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 lays down general rules for the performance of official controls for a variety of purposes, including preventing risks to humans and animals and protecting consumer interests in the feed and food trade (article 1.1).
It is without prejudice to specific Community provisions concerning official controls (article 1.3).
Official control means any form of control that the competent authority or the Community performs for the verification of compliance with feed and food law, animal health and animal welfare rules (article 2.1).
Non compliance means non compliance with feed or food law, and with the rules for the protection of animal health and welfare (article 2.10).
Recitals (41) and (42) to Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 state, inter alia, that breaches of food law may constitute a threat to human health and therefore should be subject to effective, dissuasive and proportionate measures at national level, including administrative action by competent authorities in the member states.
Recital (43) states: Operators should have a right to appeal against the decisions taken by the competent authority as a result of the official controls, and be informed of such a right.
The Court notes that in the French language version of the Regulation the relevant phrase used is Les exploitants devraient avoir un droit de recours and in the German language version Unternehmer sollten Rechtsmittel einlegen knnen .
Title VII of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 deals with enforcement measures and Chapter I is concerned with national enforcement measures.
Article 54.1 requires the competent authority, when it identifies non compliance, to take action to ensure that the operator remedies the situation.
In deciding what action to take it shall take account of the nature of the non compliance and that operators past record with regard to non compliance.
Article 54.2 gives a non exhaustive list of the measures which must be available where appropriate.
These include (b) the restriction or prohibition of the placing on the market of food; (c) if necessary, ordering the recall, withdrawal and/or destruction of food; and (h) any other measure the competent authority deems appropriate.
Article 54.3 requires the competent authority to provide the