 necessary prerequisite to placing the meat on the market.
Nobody other than the OV can perform this task.
This can only be done when official controls have not identified any deficiencies that would make the meat unfit for human consumption.
That weighted double negative test is consistent with the overall aim laid down in article 1.1 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, of the assurance of a high level of protection of human health and consumers interest in relation to food.
It may be that the meat remains food even after the OV has decided not to apply a health mark, but it cannot thereafter be lawfully intended for human consumption. (4) The qualifications and experience of the OV are carefully specified so as to ensure that he or she is properly qualified to undertake that decision making role (with the assistance permitted under the Regulations).
It would be incompatible with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 for a person or body other than the OV as referred to in article 5.2 and which does not have those qualifications and experience, such as a Justice of the Peace acting pursuant to section 9 of the 1990 Act, to decide whether a carcass should have had a health mark applied to it, even if adjudicating with the benefit of expert evidence presented by each side. (5) Article 17 of the CFR (and article 1 of the First Protocol to the ECHR) permit control of the use of property if this is a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim (reference is made to Booker Aquaculture Ltd (trading as Marine Harvest McConnell) v Scottish Ministers (Joined Cases C 20/00 and C 64/00) [2003] ECR I 7411).
The above aim is undoubtedly legitimate and the means chosen proportionate.
Article 17 does not mandate a right of challenge to the imposition of such controls. (6) If there is a requirement that there be a right of appeal in relation to the decision of an OV under article 5.2 of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004, it is satisfied by the availability of judicial review as set out above.
Judicial review also satisfies any requirement under article 17 of the CFR (or article 1 of the First Protocol to the ECHR) of a possibility of judicial control of the actions of an OV.
Conclusion
(1) Do Regulations (EC) Nos 854/2004 and 882/2004 preclude a procedure whereby pursuant to section 9 of the 1990 Act a Justice of the Peace decides on the merits of the case and on the basis of the evidence of experts called by each side whether a carcass fails to comply with food safety requirements? (2) Does Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 mandate a right of appeal in relation to a decision of an OV under article 5.2 of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 that the meat of a carcass was unfit for human consumption and, if it does, what approach should be applied in reviewing the merits of the decision taken by the OV on an appeal in such a case? For the purposes of this reference, the Court of Justice of the European Union is asked to assume that the claimant appellants interpretation of section 9 of the 1990 Act is correct, and that a Justice of the Peace has power to give a ruling which may result in an award of compensation if he considers that a health mark ought to have been applied to a carcass.
In order to determine this appeal, this Court refers the following questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union:
