 by the submissions in the present case have underlined its importance.
There is an urgent need for clarification, not only of the precise legal status of the different parts of the return, but also of any relevant differences between the paper and electronic versions of the return, and their practical consequences.
LADY ARDEN:
I am most grateful to Lord Carnwath for his judgment.
I agree that this appeal should be dismissed as a result of Issue 1, subject to the observations on interpreting consolidation statutes made below.
But on the second issue I have respectfully reached a different conclusion and so I will take that issue first.
In summary on Issue 2, I would provisionally express the view that in consequence of this courts decision in Revenue and Customs Comrs v Cotter [2013] 1 WLR 3514 and the evidence of Mr Graham Dean on behalf of HMRC, which Lord Carnwath summarises at paras 57 58 above, the erroneous entry of a loss relief claim which a taxpayer was not entitled to make in that year (not this case) in Box 15 of the prescribed online tax return does not make that tax return form a tax return for enquiry purposes.
That (provisionally) means that in those circumstances HMRC would be right to open an enquiry into the claim and not the return.
Because this appeal is principally about which enquiry HMRC must open, I will take Issue 2 first.
Issue 2: would making an erroneous claim for relief in an online tax return make that claim part of the tax return?
Issue 2 arises where a taxpayer has a claim for relief which relates to two years and Taxes Management Act 1970 (TMA), Schedule 1B applies to it (a year 2 related claim).
Under TMA, section 9(1) he must include in his return an assessment of the amount for which he is liable to pay tax taking in to account any relief or claim included in the return (see paras 22 and 64 above) (the tax calculation pages).
Suppose that the taxpayer submits a return online for the year and claims in it relief for a loss which relates to the following year.
His return will contain Box 15 (described by Lord Carnwath at para 43 above).
Will his entry of a claim in Box 15 form part of that return for the purposes of the enquiry provisions of the TMA so that if HMRC wish to open an enquiry into that claim for relief they must open an enquiry into the return and not the claim? There needs to be a clear answer to this question to avoid unnecessary service of numerous precautionary enquiry notices.
The relevant part of the tax calculation pages of the tax return is Box 1, which set out the total tax due, and Boxes 13 15 and the narrative above all three boxes, namely Boxes 13 15.
Lord Carnwath has described Box 15 and that narrative in para 43 above.
Box 13 is for increase in tax due because of adjustments in an earlier year and Box 14 is for decrease in tax due because of adjustments in an earlier year.
HMRC has filed the evidence of Mr Dean.
According to Mr Dean, once the information in the tax return (apart from the tax calculation pages) has been completed, the software presents a tax calculation from that information.
Mr Dean further explains that, when a claim is inserted into Box 15, the tax payable by the individual and shown in Box 1 is unaffected.
Using my own words, there is no reconciliation or adjustment between Box 15 and Box 1: the figure for the tax due for the year covered by the return remains exactly the same.
What Box 15 on Mr Deans evidence enables the taxpayer to do is to make an