(2) and 128(7) are more than mere signposts, as the judges below characterised them.
The words subject to are substantive in effect, imposing a qualification on the right otherwise conferred by those provisions.
Applying ordinary principles of interpretation, the absence of similar words in section 132 would naturally be taken as indicating that this right is not subject to the same qualification.
Turning to the TMA, it is true that words of Schedule 1B taken on their own would be apt to apply to a claim under sections 132 133.
However, I do not regard that as enough to displace the clear provisions of the ITA in respect of liability.
I do not see this as turning so much on whether one set of provisions is more specific than the other, but rather on the fact that the ITA is in principle the governing statute in respect of tax liability, and as such should take precedence in the absence of any indication to the contrary.
Further, unlike the judges below, I see a significant inconsistency between the two sets of provisions: the first gives the taxpayer an unqualified right to claim a deduction in the previous year; the second in effect removes that right by treating it as relating to the current year.
I also see force in Ms McCarthys reliance on the reference in section 42(11A) to certain claims for relief involving two or more years.
As she says, this may be read as implying that not all such claims are covered, and that one needs to look elsewhere to identify which. (I do not forget that in Cotter para 14, Lord Hodge proceeded on the basis that section 42(11A) had the same effect in respect of employment loss relief as the specific provision in section 128(7), but the point was not in issue and does not seem to have been subject to argument.)
The only countervailing consideration, to my mind, is the lack of any obvious explanation, in the statutory history or otherwise, of the different treatment of this form of loss relief.
In a post hearing note Mr Nawbatt gave a detailed account of the treatment of the various forms of loss relief under the previous legislation.
This shows, as is common ground, that the pre 2007 law did not draw any material distinction between share loss relief (section 574 ICTA 1988), and trade and employment loss relief (section 380 ICTA 1988).
Mr Nawbatt was also able to point to some indications in the ITA Explanatory Notes (eg in respect of section 1025, which is not directly relevant to the present case) that the authors of the notes may have assumed that share loss relief would be subject to TMA Schedule 1B, in the same way as the other forms of relief.
However, taken at their highest, these indications are far from providing a basis for departing from the ordinary principles of statutory interpretation, absent any suggestion that they produce a result which is absurd or unworkable.
Indeed, for the taxpayers liability to be determined by reference to legal archaeology of this kind would negate the whole purpose of the tax law rewrite.
It is neither necessary nor appropriate for the court to speculate as to Parliaments intentions to justify a departure from the natural interpretation of the statutory language.
For these reasons, in respectful disagreement with the Upper Tribunal and the Court of Appeal, I would hold that Mr Derry was entitled to make his claim to share loss relief in the year 2009/10.
The tax return issue
The view I have reached on the first issue makes it strictly unnecessary to reach a conclusion on the second issue.
So much was conceded by Mr Nawbatt for the Revenue in response to a question from the court early in the hearing but see para 