Whether the same would apply if the taxpayer had no such lawful entitlement raises more difficult issues.
As already noted (para 52 above), the Court of Appeal proceeded on the basis that, even if the claim was made in error in that year, it would still be part of the self assessment.
As Henderson LJ said: Plainly, errors of many different kinds may be made in such an assessment, and they may include errors about the availability of a relief.
If the Revenue is dissatisfied with the taxpayers self assessment, its remedy is either to amend the return or to open an enquiry into it under section 9A of TMA 1970 (para 57) As he saw it, the Revenues difficulty was of their own making, in that they had failed to take the obvious step of opening a timely enquiry into the 2010 Return, so enabling them to challenge the repayment of tax claimed by Mr Derry at the same time as pursuing enquiries into the claim itself and into his 2011 return (para 58).
Ms McCarthy in substance adopts the same reasoning.
The fact that the taxpayers self assessment may be erroneous in some respect does not impact on the procedural means available to the Revenue to challenge it.
Mr Nawbatt on the other side submits that, if the inclusion of the claim for that year was invalid in law, it could not be relied on to create an immunity from challenge which would not otherwise be available.
I am not satisfied that these issues have been fully explored in argument before us, which has concentrated on the entitlement to relief rather than the means of enforcement.
As has been seen, there remain unresolved uncertainties as to the correct interpretation of the entries in the on line form and their treatment by the Revenue.
In addition, we heard little discussion of the relationship of the enquiries respectively under section 9A and Schedule 1A paragraph 5.
Apart from timing, I did not understand it to be suggested that there was any material difference between the processes.
While it may be prudent for the Revenue to institute an enquiry under the former section, if there is any doubt about what is properly to be treated as part of the return, it does not necessarily follow that the Revenue is thereafter bound by the contents of the return for all purposes.
If it later emerges that a claim was wrongly included in the return for that year (for example, because it should have been treated as subject to TMA Schedule 1B), it may at least be arguable that the Revenue should not be precluded at that later stage from opening an enquiry on the correct basis.
These are potentially important issues.
Since we do not have to decide them in the context of the present case, I would prefer to leave them open for further consideration in an appropriate case with the benefit of full examination of the relevant law and practice.
Conclusion
For the reasons given under Issue 1 I would dismiss the Revenues appeal, and confirm the order of the Court of Appeal.
Finally, I repeat Lord Hodges concluding comment in Cotter: 36 The revenues submission, which I have accepted, that some entries in a tax return form are not part of the tax return for the purposes of, among others, section 9 and 9A of the 1970 Act, may create avoidable uncertainty to taxpayers and their advisers.
But that uncertainty could be removed if the return form which the revenue prescribes (section 113 the 1970 Act) were to make clear which boxes requesting information were not relevant to the calculation of tax due in the particular year of assessment.
In particular, the revenue could make this clear where the form provides for the intimation of stand alone claims which relate to another tax year.
We were not told what action, if any, has been taken in response to this advice.
The uncertainties revealed