 take the reader on to Schedules 1A and 1B.
The latter is most directly relevant to the first issue.
Schedule 1A (headed Claims etc not included in returns) provides for any such claim to be made in such form as the Board may determine (paragraph 2(3)), and provides power to enquire into the claim within a specified period (paragraph 5).
The Board is required to give effect to a claim as soon as practicable by discharge or repayment of tax (paragraph 4(1)), save that, if an enquiry has been opened into the claim, this obligation is postponed until the enquiry is completed, subject to power before then to give effect to all or part of the claim on a provisional basis (paragraph 4(3)).
Schedule 1B (headed Claims for relief involving two or more years) provides in paragraph 2 (headed Loss relief): (1) This paragraph applies where a person makes a claim requiring relief for a loss incurred or treated as incurred, or a payment made, in one year of assessment (the later year) to be given in an earlier year of assessment (the earlier year). (2) Section 42(2) of this Act shall not apply in relation to the claim. (3) The claim shall relate to the later year. (4) Subject to sub paragraph (5) below, the claim shall be for an amount equal to the difference between the amount in which the person is chargeable to (a) tax for the earlier year (amount A); and (b) the amount in which he would be so chargeable on the assumption that effect could be, and were, given to the claim in relation to that year (amount B). (6) Effect shall be given to the claim in relation to the later year, whether by repayment or set off, or otherwise.
The loss relief issue
The issue in short is whether, having exercised his right (under section 132) to claim the relevant loss relief in the previous year (2009/10), Mr Derry was correct to deduct that loss in calculating his net income and consequent tax liability for that year (under section 23); or whether, as the Revenue contend, that right was in effect overridden by TMA Schedule 1B, with the result that the loss, though claimed in year 2009/10, was to be treated as relating to the following year.
The decisions below
Both the Upper Tribunal and Court of Appeal decided this issue in favour of the Revenue.
It is not possible to do justice to their reasoning without relatively full reference to the leading judgment of Henderson LJ in the Court of Appeal (agreed by the other members of the court), which in turn refers with general approval to that of Morgan J in the Upper Tribunal.
It also provides a useful summary of the respective contentions of the parties, which have been substantially repeated in this court.
Having set out the relevant provisions of the TMA, Henderson LJ observed (paras 26 28) that the terms of paragraph 2 of Schedule 1B, read in isolation, were apt to apply to a claim for loss relief under section 131, and as such would have the same consequences as explained (in respect of employment loss relief) by Lord Hodge in Cotter.
He identified the critical issue as being whether the omission from Chapter 6 of a provision equivalent to section 60(2) or section 128(7) reflects a legislative intention that Schedule 1B should not apply to Chapter 6, even though (as I have already pointed out) the language of paragraph 2 of Schedule 1B would be entirely apt to apply to Chapter 6 in the same way as it applies to Chapters 2 and 5.