The language of Schedule 1B paragraph 2 was clearly apt to cover Mr Derrys claim, and the absence of an express signpost in Chapter 6 was not a sufficiently strong counter indication.
He also rejected (para 50) an argument that sections 132 133 constituted a more specific statutory regime, enacted later than Schedule 1B, and should therefore take precedence.
Finally, he agreed with the Upper Tribunal that there was nothing in the legislative history which cast useful light on the question (paras 51 52).
He noted Ms McCarthys submission that the inclusion of signposts in respect of trade loss relief and employment loss relief may have been connected with the treatment of the predecessor provision (section 380 of ICTA 1988) by the Court of Appeal in Blackburn v Keeling [2003] EWCA Civ 1221.
But the reason for the absence in sections 132 133 of a similar cross reference remained obscure; the possibility that it was simply an oversight certainly cannot be excluded.
Comment on Issue 1
With respect to the carefully developed reasoning of the judges below, they seem to me not only to have paid too little regard to the legislative purpose and scheme of the ITA, but also to have started from the wrong point.
It is notable that the introductory paragraphs of Henderson LJs judgment make only passing reference to the opening sections of the ITA discussed above, and in particular to section 23, by which (on its face) Mr Derrys liability for the relevant tax year 2009/10 was fixed.
Instead, his reasoning on this part of the case starts from the proposition that the words of TMA Schedule 1B paragraph 2 read in isolation are apt to cover Mr Derrys claim, and only then refers to the governing provisions of the ITA, asking whether the omission of a specific signpost in ITA Chapter 6 reflects a legislative intention that it should not apply (paras 26, 35).
While it may be true, as Henderson LJ said, that modern tax legislation in general is much more complex than at the time of Lord Dunedins classic statement, the purpose of the tax law rewrite was to restore a measure of simplicity and coherence to the principal tax statutes.
In any event, one does not need high judicial authority to make the obvious point that the first step in the imposition of a tax is to establish (in Lord Dunedins words) what persons in respect of what property are liable.
Taken together section 23 and sections 131 132 appear to constitute a clear and self contained code for the treatment of a claim to share loss relief such as that of Mr Derry.
Sections 132 133 in terms give him an entitlement to make the claim, to specify the tax year to which it is to be applied, and to do so by deducting it in the calculation of his net income for the purpose of section 23.
For good measure section 132(1) provides a specific signpost to Step 2 in section 23.
That section in turn makes clear that the result of that, and the other steps there set out, is his tax liability for the tax year in question.
Having taken such care to walk the taxpayer through the process of giving effect to his entitlement as part of his tax liability for the year specified by him, it would seem extraordinary for that to be taken away, without any direct reference or signpost, by a provision in a relatively obscure Schedule of another statute concerned principally, not with liability, but with management of the tax.
Section 1020 makes no specific reference to Schedule 1B, and in any event refers only to information in general terms, rather than anything likely to affect the substance of liability.
By contrast sections 60