 of Cotter (para 51 above) would apply only in this case to a paper return in which the taxpayer performed his calculation of tax due taking the claim into account.
It follows that the Court of Appeal would be in error in applying Lord Hodges reasoning to an online return (see per Henderson LJ cited at para 52 above).
If that is correct, then as I see it (as I have said) provisionally, unless the ratio in Cotter is to be in some way qualified for online tax return forms (which is not suggested), the relief claimed through Box 15 would not form part of the statutory return even if the true interpretation of Box 15 is that it is permitting an adjustment to the tax.
I do not consider that a taxpayer would necessarily have been misled by this since he would see that his entry had no effect on the figure in Box 1.
On that basis, HMRC would not have to open an enquiry into the return where the taxpayer had filled in Box 15 with an erroneous claim as opposed to an enquiry into the claim.
I would provisionally so hold for the reasons that I have given.
Issue 1: approach to interpretation of tax rewrite statutes
On Issue 1, while agreeing with all that Lord Carnwath has said, I add some observations about the approach to interpretation of the ITA and consolidation statutes in general to provide the context in which the passage from the judgment of Sales J approved by this court should be applied.
In deciding how the court should interpret a statute, the type of statute as set out in the statutes preamble is a relevant consideration.
In the case of the Income Tax Act 2007 (ITA), the preamble provides that the Act is to restate, with minor changes, certain enactments relating to income tax; and for connected purposes.
So, ITA is not a pure or straight consolidation Act.
However, as the Explanatory Notes cited by Lord Carnwath confirm, it is not (except for the minor changes) intended to change the law.
That is a matter which the courts must in my judgment respect when interpreting the new legislation.
In this regard it is of some significance in interpreting consolidation statutes that they receive less Parliamentary scrutiny than other primary legislation.
The respect to which I have referred for giving effect to Parliaments intention where it is possible to do so is often expressed in terms of a presumption, in relation to consolidating statutes, that Parliament did not intend to change the law.
It would often be laborious for a court to investigate what provisions had been consolidated in any particular provision of a consolidating statute.
It would be wrong in general for it to do so.
The process of drafting a consolidation statute requires specialist techniques and skills and can be very complex.
But the position is different in relation to prior case law.
The restraint required by the House of Lords in Farrell v Alexander [1977] AC 59 relates to legislative history, and not to relevant antecedent case law.
Moreover, in practice, even where a statute is a consolidation statute, courts often look at previous case law on provisions that are consolidated to assist them interpret the new provision where there is any doubt or simply to confirm the view that they have formed.
This is good sense in the interest of the consistency of the law, the fulfilment of Parliaments presumed intention and the efficient use of judicial resources.
There is a further issue, yet to be resolved, as to the application of the doctrine of precedent where there is a previous binding decision on the same provision in the earlier enactment: see the discussion in Bentine v Bentine [2016] Ch 489.
Reference back to the earlier case law does not undo the good work done by the consolidation, or run counter to it, since Parliament is likely to have had the