; or alternatively that the terms of Schedule 1B are sufficiently clear in themselves to make such a signpost unnecessary.
The TMA, as its title implies, is concerned principally with the management of the tax rather than fixing liability.
Although it dates back to 1970, it has been subject to substantial amendment since then, in particular in connection with the introduction of self assessment (under the Finance Act 1994) with effect from the year 1996 1997.
The following provisions are those in force in the relevant tax year, that is 2009/10.
I refer first to those relating to tax returns and self assessment, which are relevant principally to the second issue.
Section 8(1) empowers an officer of HMRC to give a notice requiring a person chargeable to income tax and capital gains tax for a year of assessment to make and deliver, on or before the date specified in subsection (1A), a return containing the information required by the notice, supported by such accounts and other relevant material as may reasonably be so required.
The date so specified (for present purposes) is 31 January next following the year of assessment.
By subsection (1AA)(a): the amounts in which a person is chargeable to income tax and capital gains tax are net amounts, that is to say, amounts which take into account any relief or allowance a claim for which is included in the return; By subsection (1AA)(b) the amount payable by way of income tax is the difference between the chargeable amount and the aggregate amount of any income tax deducted at source and certain tax credits.
Subsection (1H) requires the Commissioners to prescribe what constitutes an electronic return. (See also section 113 which provides generally for any returns to be in such form as the Board prescribe.)
Section 9(1) provides that, subject to immaterial exceptions, every return under section 8: shall include a self assessment, that is to say (a) an assessment of the amounts in which, on the basis of the information contained in the return and taking into account any relief or allowance a claim for which is included in the return, the person making the return is chargeable to income tax and capital gains tax for the year of assessment; and (b) way of income tax an assessment of the amount payable by him by Section 9A enables an officer of the Board to give notice of his intention to enquire into a return under section 8 within the time allowed, that is 12 months from the date of delivery for returns delivered on or before the date specified in the previous section.
By subsection (4)(a), an enquiry may extend to anything contained (or required to be contained) in the return, including any claim included in the return.
Returning to the first (loss relief) issue, section 42 (headed Procedure for making claims etc) provides: (1) Where any provision of the Taxes Acts provides for relief to be given, or any other thing to be done, on the making of a claim, this section shall, unless otherwise provided, have effect in relation to the claim. (2) where notice has been given under section 8 of this Act, a claim shall not at any time be made otherwise than by being included in a return under that section if it could, at that or any subsequent time, be made by being so included. (11) Schedule 1A to this Act shall apply as respects any claim or election which is made otherwise than by being included in a (a) return under section 8 of this Act, (11A) Schedule 1B to this Act shall have effect as respects certain claims for relief involving two or more years of assessment.
Thus subsections (11) and (11A)