 early claim for the relief and to adjust his liability for tax for the following year in accordance with HMRCs understanding of the law.
There is a dispute between the parties as to the extent to which Mr Deans evidence forms part of the evidence in these proceedings but the Upper Tribunal noted that it was accepted by both parties save in relation to a point which is no longer material (see [2016] STC 334, para 46).
In those circumstances I propose to deal with the issue on the basis of Mr Deans evidence, but on a provisional basis only because this matter needs to be argued between HMRC and a taxpayer who is interested to argue otherwise.
I agree with Lord Carnwath that it is not open to HMRC to argue that the online form prevented Mr Derry from making an adjustment to his calculation of the tax due if that is what he is entitled to do.
They can, however, raise that argument against taxpayers with year 2 related claims.
It is pertinent here to note that HMRC must not simply prescribe a separate form of tax return for use online they must also prescribe what constitutes an electronic return: see Taxes Management Act, section 8(1H), as amended by the Finance Act 2007.
This power is conferred by primary legislation and therefore sections 9(1) and 8(1H) must be read harmoniously together.
The form is in fact available for use only through HMRCs online services or with third party software approved by HMRC.
It seems reasonable to infer that the automatic calculations and inhibitors on reconciliations built into the software and, it may be assumed, HMRCs online return form constitute part of the prescribed return and are included in what constitutes the return, but this point has not been the subject of argument.
Again provisionally, there is no reason as it seems to me why the online form should not preclude an adjustment which would produce a result which was incompatible with the Taxes Acts.
The objective in designing a tax return form, including an online form, is to help the taxpayer file a tax return which properly shows his liability, no more and no less.
Indeed, Lord Hodge in Cotter specifically envisaged that HMRC could take steps to prevent a taxpayer making claims in the online form which he was not entitled to make: see para 24 set out by Lord Carnwath at para 51 above.
It is now necessary to go back to Cotter.
As I see it, Cotter teaches us that there is a difference, for the purposes of the TMA sections 8(1), 9, 9A and 42(11)(a) at least, between a tax return and a tax return form.
This may be seen from paras 25 and 36 of Lord Hodges judgment in Cotter, cited by Lord Carnwath at paras 51 and 52 above.
This court there held that, if an item does not fall to be taken into account for the purpose of calculating the tax payable by the taxpayer submitting the form, it is to be left out of account and does not constitute part of the return for the purposes mentioned.
Mr Dean supplies the evidence as to how the relevant item in this case (the entry in Box 15) is treated in the online form, and that is only to notify HMRC of the claim and not to affect the tax payable.
The Court of Appeal reached the conclusion that the claim made by Mr Derry was relevant to the calculation of the tax due (see para 47 above) but they took no account of the Mr Deans evidence.
However, if that evidence is accepted, it would seem to me provisionally to follow that that their conclusion was wrong and that the effect described by Lord Hodge in para 27