 (para 35)
He recorded (paras 37ff) that Morgan J had begun by observing that TMA section 42 applied unless otherwise provided and asking whether there was anything to disapply the section in respect of Mr Derrys claim under section 132.
He had answered that question in the negative, noting also that neither side had put forward any persuasive reason for the difference of treatment between claims under Chapters 2 and 5 as compared to Chapter 6.
He had described the specific references in the former to Schedule 1B as signposts; but he did not regard the lack of a similar signpost in Chapter 6 as clear enough to be otherwise provided for the purposes of section 42(1).
He had also concluded that there was no inconsistency between the detailed provisions of sections 132 and 133 of ITA 2007, taken together with the operation of section 23 and paragraph 2 of Schedule 1B. Henderson LJ regarded this observation as clearly correct, adding that it (was) not challenged by Mr Derry. (The latter understanding appears to have been mistaken, having regard to an extract we were shown by Ms McCarthy from Mr Derrys Replacement Skeleton Argument in the Court of Appeal.)
Morgan J had also considered and rejected an argument for Mr Derry based on the reference in section 42(11A) to its application only to certain claims.
Again, Henderson LJ agreed commenting: The structure of Schedule 1B is that it applies to certain specified claims for relief involving two or more years.
The provisions relating to loss relief are contained in paragraph 2.
The remaining paragraphs deal with entirely separate claims, for example relief for fluctuating profits of farming etc in paragraph 3, and the carry back of post cessation receipts in paragraph 5.
It is therefore entirely natural for the provision in the body of TMA 1970 which gives effect to Schedule 1B to say that it shall have effect as respects certain claims for relief involving two or more years of assessment, that is to say the various claims for relief which are dealt with in the Schedule.
Much clearer language would in my judgment have been needed if Parliament had intended to stipulate that the provisions contained in Schedule 1B were to apply only to claims expressly identified elsewhere in the Taxes Acts as ones to which Schedule 1B applied.
Another way of making the same point is to say that the subject matter of Schedule 1B is to be ascertained by looking at its provisions, which are given effect (but not circumscribed) by section 42(11A). (para 42)
Turning to the submissions in the Court of Appeal, he noted Ms McCarthys reliance on Lord Dunedins well known enumeration of the three stages in the imposition of a tax that is, declaration of liability, assessment, and methods of recovery (Whitney v Inland Revenue Comrs [1926] AC 37, 52).
The first (in Lord Dunedins words) was the part of the statute which determines what persons in respect of what property are liable.
Liability does not depend on assessment.
That, ex hypothesi, has already been fixed.
She submitted that Mr Derrys liability was fixed by the provisions of Chapter 6 and could not be overridden by provisions relating to the assessment stage, other than by clear words as found in Chapters 2 and 5 of ITA Part 4.
Henderson LJ disagreed (para 49).
Lord Dunedins classic statement was of little assistance in respect of the present UK tax system which is vastly more complex than it was a century ago: one cannot always expect today to find that provisions relating to the imposition and calculation of liability are unaffected by provisions relating to the machinery of assessment.
