d)); and (in case he had forgotten) reminding him that this Part needs to be read with Chapter 3 of Part 2 (calculation of income tax liability) (section 59(2)).
Section 131 is the first of a group of sections under Chapter 6, dealing with Share loss relief against general income.
An individual is eligible for share loss relief if he incurs an allowable loss for capital gains tax purposes on the disposal of any qualifying shares in any tax year, defined as the year of the loss.
Qualifying shares include shares in a qualifying trading company, the conditions for which are set out in sections 134 to 143.
Section 132 provides: Entitlement to claim (1) An individual who is eligible for share loss relief may make a claim for the loss to be deducted in calculating the individuals net income (a) (b) (c) for the year of the loss, for the previous tax year, or for both tax years. (See Step 2 of the calculation in section 23.) If the claim is made in relation to both tax years, the (2) claim must specify the year for which a deduction is to be made first. (3) Otherwise the claim must specify either the year of the loss or the previous tax year. (4) The claim must be made on or before the first anniversary of the normal self assessment filing date for the year of the loss.
Notable here again is the specific reference back to Step 2 in the calculation of liability under section 23.
Section 133 (headed How the relief works) provides: (1) This subsection explains how the deductions are to be made.
Step 1 Deduct the loss in calculating the individuals net income for the specified tax year The reference to net income again takes the reader back to section 23 where that concept is defined.
At this point, in relation to the first issue, I note Ms McCarthy QCs submission, for Mr Derry, that the provisions of the ITA so far considered give clear and conclusive guidance as to the treatment of his claim to share loss relief for the purposes of assessing his liability for the tax year 2009/10, which is not overridden by anything elsewhere in the ITA or in the TMA.
On the other side, for the Revenue Mr Nawbatt QC submits that this is only part of the story.
He refers to ITA section 1020(2) which, as he says, would have pointed the taxpayer in the direction of TMA in these terms: For further information about claims and elections, see TMA 1970 (in particular section 42(2), (10) and (11) and Schedule 1A).
Although there is no specific reference to TMA Schedule 1B, that as he submits is to be taken as encompassed in the general reference to the TMA itself.
He also relies by way of analogy on more specific references to the TMA in other chapters of Part 4.
They are in Chapter 2 (Trade losses) and Chapter 5 (Employment loss relief).
The legislative pattern in each case is very similar to the provisions relating to share loss relief, but in each case, there appear (respectively in section 60(2) and section 128(7)) the following words: This Chapter is subject to paragraph 2 of Schedule 1B to TMA 1970 (claims for loss relief involving two or more years).
There is no equivalent reservation in the sections relating to share loss relief.
However, Mr Nawbatt submits that the analogy indicates the appropriate relationship between the loss relief provisions and the TMA; and that, even without such a specific reference, section 1020 is sufficient to point the taxpayer in that direction