1994 and then further amended by section 121(1) of the Finance Act 1996 and by section 114 of and Schedule 27 to the Finance Act 2007. 26.
In this case, the figures in Box 14 on page CG1 and in Box 3 on page Ai3 were supplemented by the explanations which Mr Cotter gave of his claim in the boxes requesting any other information and additional information in the tax return.
Those explanations alerted the revenue to the nature of the claim for relief.
It concluded, correctly, that the claim under section 128 of the 2007 Act in respect of losses incurred in 2008/2009 did not alter the tax chargeable or payable in relation to 2007/2008.
The revenue was accordingly entitled and indeed obliged to use Schedule 1A of the 1970 Act as the vehicle for its enquiry into the claim: section 42(11)(a). 27.
Matters would have been different if the taxpayer had calculated his liability to income and capital gains tax by requesting and completing the tax calculation summary pages of the tax return.
In such circumstances the revenue would have his assessment that, as a result of the claim, specific sums or no sums were due as the tax chargeable and payable for 2007/2008.
Such information and self assessment would in my view fall within a return under section 9A of the 1970 Act as it would be the taxpayers assessment of his liability in respect of the relevant tax year.
The revenue could not go behind the taxpayers self assessment without either amending the tax return (section 9ZB of the 1970 Act ) or instituting an enquiry under section 9A of the 1970 Act.
It follows that a taxpayer may be able to delay the 28. payment of tax by claims which turn out to be unfounded if he completes the assessment by calculating the tax which he is due to pay.
Accordingly, the revenues interpretation of the expression return may not save it from tax avoidance schemes.
But what persuades me that the revenue is right in its interpretation of return is that income tax is an annual tax and that disputes about matters which are not relevant to a taxpayers liability in a particular year should not postpone the finality of that years assessment.
While recognising that the last two paragraphs were not binding, Henderson LJ regarded them as following logically from Lord Hodges earlier analysis.
He saw a clear distinction between the inclusion in the return of information which is irrelevant in law to the taxpayers liability for that year (even if included by implicit invitation of the Revenue), and the taxpayers self assessment of the tax which he is due to pay: a taxpayers self assessment is a different matter.
Plainly, errors of many different kinds may be made in such an assessment, and they may include errors about the availability of a relief.
If the Revenue is dissatisfied with the taxpayers self assessment, its remedy is either to amend the return or to open an enquiry into it under section 9A of TMA 1970. , such an enquiry may extend to anything contained (or required to be contained) in the return.
The boxes on page TC2 for adjustments to tax due must in my view be regarded as containing information required to be contained in the return, where the taxpayer elects to perform his own self assessment, because such adjustments form an integral part of the calculation of the tax due to be paid by him for the year in accordance with sections 23 and 24 of ITA 2007.
It follows that the information contained in those boxes cannot be regarded as extraneous to the return.
As I understand it, this is the essential point which Lord Hodge was making in Cotter at para 27, and if I may