 for tax allegedly due for the tax year 2009/10 in the sum of 166,044.26 with interest.
On 6 June 2014, this was replaced by a demand for 95,546.36 with interest.
On 21 May 2014, Mr Derry began the present judicial review proceedings, which were treated by agreement as relating to the replacement demand of 6 June 2014.
He failed on both issues before the Upper Tribunal but succeeded on the second issue before the Court of Appeal (and therefore succeeded overall).
The Revenue appeal on that issue with the permission of this court; Mr Derry resists the appeal on that issue but seeks to uphold the decision in any event on Issue 1.
The statutory framework
The Tax Law Rewrite project
As noted above, the relevant provisions are contained in the ITA and the TMA.
In considering the interpretation of the ITA it is necessary in my view to have in mind its genesis as part of the Tax Law Rewrite project.
The main purpose of that project, as stated in the ITA Explanatory Notes (paras 5 and 7) was to rewrite the income tax legislation that has not so far been rewritten so as to make it clearer and easier to use The Act does not generally change the meaning of the law when rewriting it.
The minor changes which it does make are within the remit of the Tax Law Rewrite project and the Parliamentary process for the Act.
In the main, such minor changes are intended to clarify existing provisions, make them consistent or bring the law into line with established practice.
For a useful description and evaluation of the project, see David Salter The tax law rewrite in the United Kingdom: plus change plus cest la meme chose? [2010] BTR 671.
I would also refer to the explanation of the drafting approach for the project, given by Stephen Timms MP, then Financial Secretary to the Treasury, in 2009 in the course of opening the Second Reading Committee debate on the second Corporation Tax Bill: The project now has a well established approach to rewriting legislation, developed with the help of people whom it has consulted over a number of years.
It restructures legislation to bring related provisions together and to provide more logical ordering.
It also helps users by providing navigational aids, such as signposts, to make relevant parts of the legislation easier to find, and it has introductory provisions to set the scene.
It unpacks dense source legislation by using shorter sentences and, where possible, it harmonises definitions.
It uses modern language and helps the reader with aids such as formulae, tables and method statements, when appropriate. (Hansard, HC, col 3, Second Reading Committee, Corporation Tax Bill, 2008 2009 (January 15, 2009) (HC General Committee Debates, Session 2008 09) cited by David Salter op cit p 680.)
In Eclipse Film Partners (No 35) LLP v Comrs of Her Majestys Revenue and Customs [2013] UKUT 639 (TCC); [2014] STC 1114 Sales J, likened the correct approach to statutory interpretation to that appropriate to a consolidation statute (as explained by the House of Lords in Farrell v Alexander [1977] AC 59): When construing a consolidating statute, which is intended to operate as a coherent code or scheme governing some subject matter, the principal inference as to the intention of Parliament is that it should be construed as a single integrated body of law, without any need for reference back to the same provisions as they appeared in earlier legislative versions.
An important part of the objective of a consolidating statute or a project like the Tax Law Rewrite Project is to gather disparate provisions