 enquiry Mr Cotters case involved a paper return and had he requested the tax calculation pages he would have completed the Box 1 TC1 calculation manually rather than leaving it to HMRC to carry out the calculation.
It is HMRCs position that Lord Hodges obiter comments in para 27 were addressing a hypothetical scenario in which Mr Cotters manual calculation of the Box 1 figure had involved the deduction of the year 2 loss relief, ie the figure Mr Cotter had manually inserted into Box 1 had been arrived at after deducting the year 2 relief .
This interpretation, he submitted, is supported by Lord Hodges reference to Mr Cotter having calculated his liability to income tax by completing the tax calculation summary pages, giving the Revenue his assessment that specific sums or no sums were due as the tax chargeable for that year.
The equivalent pages of the on line form used by Mr Derry did not permit such a specific calculation.
To establish his claim he would have needed to complete the capital gains pages on the year 1 return, which it is said would have fed into the figure in Box 1.
Ms McCarthy rejected this narrow view of Lord Hodges comments, and also the Revenues attempt to distinguish between the different parts of the Tax Calculation Summary.
As she points out, Box 1 includes a reference to student loan repayment, which as Lord Hodge accepted (para 25) is extraneous to the chargeable income tax of the year.
On the other hand, the Revenue accept that some other parts of the summary (Boxes 11 and 12: Blind persons surplus allowance and married couples surplus allowance) do feed into the tax for the current year.
As Ms McCarthy submits, it is impossible to draw any clear distinction based simply on the printed entries in the form itself.
She rejects as absurd the novel suggestion that, in order to claim a relief relevant to his income tax liability, he should have to fill in a part of the return dealing with capital gains.
Comment on Issue 2
Ms McCarthys submission, like the Court of Appeals reasoning, appears consistent with the natural reading of the statutory provisions.
Section 9 requires the taxpayer to make a self assessment of the chargeable amount of tax on the basis of the information contained in the return and taking into account any relief a claim for which is included in the return (emphasis added).
On its face, this implies that the return is treated as including the relief as claimed by the taxpayer in his return, whether or not the claim ultimately proves well founded.
The Revenues case rests on the assertion that the process of self assessment is defined by the figure which appears in Box 1 under that title, and that other claims, including in particular in Box 15, are irrelevant in so far as they do not feed into the self assessment for the current year.
Although, as already noted (para 40 above), Mr Nawbatt had conceded that this issue would not arise if Mr Derry succeeded on the first issue, his post hearing submission appeared to go back on that.
Mr Nawbatt has not in terms sought permission to withdraw his concession and I agree with Ms McCarthy that it is much too late for him to do so.
But in any event, the submission seems to me misconceived.
It implies that, by prescribing an on line form which makes it impossible to make the necessary adjustment to the self assessment figure, the Revenue can deprive a taxpayer of a relief to which he is lawfully entitled and to which a claim has been clearly included on the face of his return.
That cannot be right.
It may be, as Mr Dean seems to be saying, that it would have bypassed the Revenues automated tax consistency checks.
However, that is not the fault or the concern of the taxpayer.
