 respectfully say so, I agree with it. (para 57) The Revenues difficulty in the present case arose simply from their failure to take the obvious step of opening an enquiry into the 2010 return within the statutory time limit.
The submissions in the appeal
Ms McCarthy generally supported the reasoning of the Court of Appeal on this issue, and relied in particular on Lord Hodges observations in paras 27 28 as directly applicable to Mr Derrys claim.
For the Revenue, Mr Nawbatt submitted that the obiter observations in Cotter cannot be taken as suggesting that reliefs may be forced into year 1 where they do not in law relate to year 1.
Lord Hodges observations should not be taken as intended to create a situation where a taxpayer can erroneously (or perhaps deliberately) make a claim as part of his self assessment exercise and expect to benefit from the error unless noticed and acted upon by the Revenue.
The Court of Appeals reasoning in the present case, he submitted, turned on a misunderstanding of the correct meaning of self assessment, which relates solely to the action required to establish the amounts in which a person is chargeable to tax for the year, as reflected in the total tax figure given in the self assessment Box.
It is wrong to regard other parts of the Tax Calculation Summary pages as part of that exercise if, as explained in Cotter (para 25) they do not affect the assessment of income tax chargeable for the year.
Mr Deans evidence
At this point I should refer to the witness statement of Mr Graham Dean, a Senior Investigator with the Revenue, which was admitted before the Upper Tribunal and referred to by Morgan J on other matters (see UT paras 47, 59ff).
Mr Deans evidence was not mentioned by the Court of Appeal.
Nor was it included in the original papers for this court or referred to in the written submissions; it was only produced at the request of the court.
He speaks with experience as an Inspector of Taxes for more than 25 years, and particular experience of leading investigations into share loss relief avoidance.
Mr Dean explains the procedures governing the submission of tax returns online, by use either of the Revenues own software, or software provided by other suppliers complying with the Revenues technical specifications and designed to produce the same computations (paras 5 6).
He comments on the significance of different parts of the return: As well as the mandatory information relating to income and gains and the self assessment for the year in question (as required under sections 8 and 9), the tax return also provides spaces to allow the taxpayer, if he wishes, to provide other information or to make claims not related to the year in question.
These are provided for administrative convenience and customer service but, being optional, are not subject to the consistency checks described above.
One such matter is the ability to submit an early claim to relieve trading or capital losses arising in the immediately following tax year (year 2) by reference to income for the current year (year 1) or an earlier year.
If the taxpayer wishes to make such a claim effective, he would also need to compute the amount of the tax repayment that he considers will arise from the claim and enter this in the box labelled Any [year 2] payment you are reclaiming now within the section headed adjustments to tax due.
As these claims are not part of the year 1 return and do not affect the self assessment for that year, they are frequently referred to as stand alone claims. (paras 12 13) He explains that such a year 2 repayment claim is shown on the taxpayers self assessment statement of account as a Free Standing Credit or FSC.
This, he says, simply records what the taxpayer has claimed.
It does not represent HMRCs