 for the year based on the return as it then stood.
He later entered into a tax avoidance scheme intended to eliminate that liability, for which purpose his accountants submitted a provisional 2007/08 loss relief claim and proposed amendments to his 2007/08 self assessment form relying on his loss relief claim.
The Revenue opened an enquiry into the claim under Schedule 1A, and in the meantime refused to give effect to the claim.
In due course they instituted county court proceedings for the tax due.
In his defence Mr Cotter challenged the jurisdiction of the court, on the grounds that he had made an effective claim for relief in his tax return for 2007/08 which could only be challenged by an enquiry under section 9A, and in relation to which the First tier Tribunal had exclusive jurisdiction.
The proceedings were transferred on this issue to the Chancery Division of the High Court, which rejected his defence.
Although his appeal to the Court of Appeal was successful, their decision was reversed by the Supreme Court (the single judgment being given by Lord Hodge).
It was held that by virtue of Schedule 1B his claim, though referred to in his amended 2007/08 tax return, must be treated as relating to the following tax year, and not therefore as part of the return in the relevant sense, that being limited to the information required to establish his liability for the year in question.
More directly relevant to the present case, however, is a passage in Lord Hodges judgment commenting (obiter) on the position if Mr Cotter had made the calculation of liability himself, rather than leaving it to HMRC to do so.
In order to set this passage in the context of Lord Hodges discussion of the interaction of the relevant provisions and the tax return form, it is appropriate to quote the relevant paragraphs in full: 24.
Where, as in this case, the taxpayer has included information in his tax return but has left it to the revenue to calculate the tax which he is due to pay, I think that the revenue is entitled to treat as irrelevant to that calculation information and claims, which clearly do not as a matter of law affect the tax chargeable and payable in the relevant year of assessment.
It is clear from section 8(1) and 8(1AA) of the 1970 Act that the purpose of a tax return is to establish the amounts of income tax and capital gains tax chargeable for a year of assessment and the amount of income tax payable for that year.
The revenues calculation of the tax due is made on behalf of the taxpayer and is treated as the taxpayers self assessment: section 9(3)(3A) of the 1970 Act 25.
The tax return form contains other requests, such as information about student loan repayments (page TR2), the transfer of the unused part of a taxpayers blind persons allowance (page TR3) or claims for losses in the following tax year (Box 3 on page Ai3) which do not affect the income tax chargeable in the tax year which the return form addresses.
The word return may have a wider meaning in other contexts within the 1970 Act.
But, in my view, in the context of sections 8(1), 9, 9A and 42(11)(a) of the 1970 Act, a return refers to the information in the tax return form which is submitted for the purpose of establishing the amounts in which a person is chargeable to income tax and capital gains tax for the relevant year of assessment and the amount payable by him by way of income tax for that year: section 8(1) [of] the 1970 Act, as substituted firstly by section 178(1) of the Finance Act 