 into a single, easily accessible code.
That objective would be undermined if, in order to interpret the consolidating legislation, there was a constant need to refer back to the previous disparate provisions and construe them (para 97)
I would respectfully endorse this guidance, which should be read with Lady Ardens comments (paras 84 90) on the relevance of prior case law.
At the same time I would emphasise that the task should be approached from the standpoint that the resulting statutes are intended to be relatively easy to use, not just by professionals but also by the reasonably informed taxpayer, and that the signposts are there for a purpose, in particular to give clear pointers to each stage of the taxpayers journey to fiscal enlightenment.
Income Tax Act 2007
The ITA clearly reflects these principles (as will be readily apparent from a comparison with its immediate predecessor, the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ICTA 1988).
It starts in section 2 with an Overview of the Act, designed to give specific guidance as to what follows.
Thus, the reader is told that the Act has 17 Parts, the effect of each of which is then summarised with references to the corresponding chapters.
Relevant in the present context are Part 2, which contains basic provisions about income tax, including (a) provision about the annual nature of income tax (Chapter 1) and (c) the calculation of income tax liability (Chapter 3); and Part 4 which is about loss relief including relief for (d) losses on disposal of shares (Chapter 6) .
In Part 2, section 4 establishes income tax as an annual tax, charged for a tax year running from 6 April to 5 April in the following year.
Chapter 3, headed Calculation of Income Tax Liability provides in section 23 a step by step guide to the process: 23.
The calculation of income tax liability To find the liability of a person (the taxpayer) to income tax for a tax year, take the following steps.
Step 1 Identify the amounts of income on which the taxpayer is charged to income tax for the tax year.
The sum of those amounts is total income.
Each of those amounts is a component of total income.
Step 2 Deduct from the components the amount of any relief under a provision listed in relation to the taxpayer in section 24 to which the taxpayer is entitled for the tax year.
See sections 24A and 25 for further provision about the deduction of those reliefs.
The sum of the amounts of the components left after this step is net income.
Steps 3 to 7 (not relevant to the present dispute) set out further steps in the calculation process, leading to the conclusion: The result is the taxpayers liability to income tax for the tax year.
As Henderson LJ noted (para 50) the introduction of the statutory concept of net income under Step 2 was an innovation, bringing about (in his words): a welcome degree of precision and clarity in place of the previous non statutory concept of net statutory income representing total income less allowable deductions.
In the present case Step 2 would have pointed a taxpayer in Mr Derrys position to sections 24 and 25 for guidance on the reliefs there mentioned, including (under section 24(1)(a)) Chapter 6 of Part 4 (share loss relief).
Section 25(2) would have told him to deduct such reliefs in the way which will result in the greatest reduction in his tax liability.
Moving on, as directed, to Part 4 (Loss relief), he would have found in section 59 an Overview of that Part, including a reference to losses on a disposal of certain shares (see Chapter 6) (section 59(1)(