 approval of the claim.
Referring to Box 15 on page TC2, he says that is not part of the return, so it is not subject to any of the automated tax consistency checks (para 16).
Commenting on Mr Derrys own return, and the entry in Box 15, he says that the effect of entering the figure of 165,800 in this box was to automatically generate an FSC of the same amount ; and that, when it was set against the balancing payment of 95,546.36 due on 31 January 2011, the computer automatically allocated the FSC against that liability first showing the balance as a repayment pending of 70,253.64 (paras 25, 28).
Although he has been unable to ascertain the precise circumstances of the repayment made to Mr Derry before the conclusion of the enquiry, his own view, given the size of the claim and the fact that the company in question had not been identified, was that it had been made if not in error, then prematurely (para 31).
Finally, he mentions the operational problems caused for the Revenue by the Court of Appeals decision in Cotter.
But notes without further comment that the Revenues appeal was allowed by the Supreme Court.
It does not appear that any similar evidence was before the court in Cotter.
There was some uncertainty at the end of the hearing about the precise status of Mr Deans evidence, or the extent to which it was relied on in support of the Revenues submissions.
Although we invited further submissions on certain questions apparently arising from it, I do not think the evidence itself is critical to our consideration of this issue.
It is of some interest in explaining, not only the background to the present appeal, but more generally aspects of the Revenues approach to the self assessment process, and the workings of its internal systems.
However, as Ms McCarthy rightly submits, neither the Revenues internal management systems, nor Mr Deans subjective understanding of them, can ultimately be determinative of the issue before us.
That must turn on the correct interpretation of the law, and an objective reading of the tax return within its statutory framework.
It may be, as Lady Arden suggests, that the relevant statutory framework should be taken as including the terms in which the relevant return forms, paper or electronic, are prescribed by the Revenue (under sections 8(1H) and 113 of the 1970 Act).
That may in turn raise a question whether, in respect of the on line forms, those prescribed terms include, or are to be taken as including, the automatic adjustments built into the Revenues software, including the calculation in Box 1.
Mr Deans evidence provides no direct assistance on the point, and neither party based any submissions on it.
On the limited material before us, it is difficult to draw any firm conclusions.
Post hearing submissions on Cotter
One point on which we asked for clarification was the Revenues position on Lord Hodges obiter comments in Cotter, and in particular whether it mattered that the return in that case was in paper form rather than on line as in the present case.
I quote Mr Nawbatts response: The material difference between submitting a paper return (including the tax calculation pages) and an on line return is that because the tax calculation pages on the paper return are completed manually it is physically possible for the taxpayer to enter into Box 1 TC1 a figure that is not the sum of the relevant boxes that feed into the self assessment for the year.
As explained in Rouse 2 [R (Rouse) v HMRC [2014] STC 230], at para 14, if HMRC wanted to enquire into that Box 1 figure it would have to open a section 9A