 Grand Chamber of the Strasbourg court took the unusual step of holding that the margin of appreciation allowed to Ireland had not been decisively narrowed, despite the existence of a consensus amongst a substantial majority of the contracting States allowing abortion on wider grounds than those allowed under Irish law (which was and, for the time being at least, remains even narrower than the law in Northern Ireland).
The majority felt able to do this because the prohibition was based on the profound moral views of the Irish people as to the nature of life and women had the right to lawfully travel abroad for an abortion with access to appropriate information and medical care in Ireland (para 241).
The minority (of six) pointed out that this was the first time that the court had disregarded a European consensus on the basis of profound moral views and considered it a real and dangerous new departure, even assuming those views were still well embedded in the conscience of the Irish people (para O III11).
Two of the women in the A, B and C case were seeking abortions on what were described as health and well being grounds: the majority found no violation.
The third was concerned that continuing her pregnancy might endanger her life because she had cancer: the Court found a violation of the States positive obligation to secure effective respect for her private life because there was no accessible and effective procedure by which she could have established whether she qualified for a lawful abortion in Ireland.
The position in this case is quite different.
In the first place, there is no evidence that the profound moral views of the people of Northern Ireland are against allowing abortion in the three situations under discussion here.
Quite the reverse.
There is a remarkably consistent series of public opinion polls showing majority support for abortion in these circumstances.
The most recent survey was a serious academic study, more rigorous than a conventional opinion poll (the results of the Northern Ireland Life and Times Survey are set out in para 110 of Lord Mances judgment).
This evidence cannot be lightly dismissed when the argument is that profound moral views of the public are sufficient to outweigh the grave interference with the rights of the pregnant women entailed in making them continue their pregnancies to term even though they, by definition, have reached a different moral conclusion no doubt, for many, an agonising one.
In the second place, we are dealing with three very different situations from those with which the A, B and C case was concerned, situations in which it cannot seriously be contended that a pregnant woman has a duty to carry the pregnancy to term.
In the case of rape, not only did she not consent to becoming pregnant, she did not consent to the act of intercourse which made her pregnant, a double invasion of her autonomy and the right to respect for her private life.
In this connection, it is worth noting that the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008 labels two offences rape: article 5 makes it the offence of rape intentionally to penetrate, inter alia, a vagina with a penis where the woman does not consent and the man does not reasonably believe that she consents; article 12 makes it the offence of rape of a child intentionally to penetrate a person under 13 with a penis, irrespective of consent or a belief in consent; both offences carry a maximum of life imprisonment.
Article 16 is labelled Sexual activity with a child and makes it an offence for a person of 18 or older intentionally to touch another person where the touching is sexual and that other person is either under 16 and the toucher does not reasonably believe that she is 16 or over or she is under 13.
If the touching involves penetration of a vagina with a penis, the offence carries a maximum sentence of 14 years imprisonment.
Thus the only difference between the article 16 offence and the article 12 offence is that, if the child is 