 the purpose only of preserving the life of the mother, Macnaghten J (the trial judge) said to the jury that, although those words did not appear in section 58 of the 1861 Act, they were implied by the word unlawful in that section.
Those words ought to be construed in a reasonable sense said Macnaghten J, and it was, therefore, the surgeons duty to perform the operation if he was of the reasonable opinion that the probable consequence of the pregnancy continuing would be to make the patient a physical and mental wreck.
In the Court of Appeal in the present case ([2017] NICA 42, Morgan LCJ, Gillen and Weatherup LJJ), the Lord Chief Justice, Sir Declan Morgan, suggested that it was possible to construe the words, for the purpose only of preserving the life of the mother so as to include circumstances where the mothers life was significantly adversely affected para 49.
Developing this theme, he said at para 79: I accept that the grain of the 1861 Act and the 1945 Act was intended to provide substantial protection for the foetus but in my view the phrase for the purpose of preserving the life of the mother cannot in present circumstances be interpreted reasonably as confining protection for the mother by way of abortion to those circumstances where it is likely that she will be a physical or mental wreck.
I have had the benefit of affidavits sworn in these proceedings by Sarah Ewart and AT [Ashleigh Topley].
Some aspects of the effect on these women of the prohibition of abortion in this jurisdiction in their circumstances have been described in [earlier paras of the judgment].
The present law prioritises the need to protect to a reasonable extent the life that women in these emotionally devastating situations can enjoy.
In my opinion that requires the court to determine what is reasonably tolerable in todays society.
That is not to be defined by the values of the 1930s.
I conclude that circumstances such as those described in those affidavits fall within the scope of the Bourne exception interpreted in accordance with that test.
I consider that in each case the effects on these women were such that the option of abortion in this jurisdiction after appropriate advice should have been open.
That conclusion is not dependent upon the state of health of the foetus.
Gillen LJ expressed disagreement with these statements in para 91 of his judgment.
He considered that it was institutionally inappropriate for the court to change the effect of the legislation and its interpretation in R v Bourne.
Weatherup LJ also disagreed with the Lord Chief Justices view that contemporary standards could serve to enlarge the scope of the Bourne exception.
He pointed out that the law as expressed by Macnaghten J had been applied by the Court of Appeal in Northern Ireland in the FPANI case where Nicholson LJ said at para 75: Procurement of a miscarriage (or abortion) is a criminal offence [in Northern Ireland] punishable by a maximum sentence of life imprisonment if the prosecution proves beyond any reasonable doubt to the satisfaction of a jury: (1) that the person who procured the miscarriage did not believe that there was a risk that the mother might die if the pregnancy was continued; or (2) did not believe that the mother would probably suffer serious long term harm to her physical or mental health; or (3) did not believe that the mother would probably suffer serious long term harm to her physical or mental health if she gave birth to an abnormal child ; (4) a person who is a secondary party to the commission of the criminal offence referred to above is liable on conviction to the same penalty as the principal; (5) it follows that an abortion will be lawful if a jury considers that the continuance of the pregnancy would