 section 71(2B)(c) provides that the Commission may act only if there is or would be one or more victims of the unlawful act.
If, as I consider to be the case, the implementation of the provisions of the 1861 and 1945 Acts involves the violation of Convention rights, it is clear that there have been and will be victims of such violations.
The Attorney Generals suggestion that, in order to satisfy the requirement that there would be victims of the unlawful act, NIHRC must bring its case by reference to a specific potential victim and a concrete set of facts, is plainly incorrect.
The natural meaning of a power to act where there would be victims clearly indicates an intention that the Commission should be able pre emptively to prevent human rights violations rather than merely bring post hoc proceedings relating to actual violations.
Quite apart from this, the Attorney Generals submission (in para 53 of his reference) that the Commission has not identified any individual who is or would be a victim of any unlawful act (nor has any intervener) cannot be accepted.
If these legislative provisions are found to be incompatible with ECHR, clearly there are actual and potential victims.
The cases described above amply demonstrate this.
And, as NIHRC notes at para 64 of its reply to the reference, neither of the respondents has ever disputed that there are women and girls in the three categories instanced, fatal foetal abnormality, serious foetal abnormality and pregnancy as the result of rape or incest.
The practical effects of a finding that NIHRC does not have standing should not be shied away from.
These can be considered at a general and at a particular level.
The first is to deny the body instituted for the precise purpose of defending and promoting human rights protection in Northern Ireland of one of the most obvious means of securing that protection.
It introduces a perplexing and unaccountable discrepancy between the powers available to EHRC and NIHRC.
Most importantly, as this case vividly illustrates, it makes a significant inroad into the practicality and effectiveness of the article 3 and 8 rights of pregnant girls and women in Northern Ireland.
Women suffering from the ill effects of a pregnancy where there is a fatal foetal abnormality or who are pregnant because of rape or incest do not have the luxury of time within which to seek vindication of their rights.
This is pre eminently a situation where an independent body such as NIHRC should be invested with the power to mount a challenge to legislation which violates, and will violate if it continues in force, the rights of some members of the female population of Northern Ireland.
Article 13 of ECHR provides for the right to an effective remedy.
It is in these terms: Everyone whose rights and freedoms as set forth in this Convention are violated shall have an effective remedy before a national authority notwithstanding that the violation has been committed by persons acting in an official capacity.
This article was not included in the schedule to the HRA 1998 because it was thought that the HRA 1998 itself provided an effective remedy.
A requirement that there must be a specific unlawful act affecting a particular individual before breach of article 3 or article 8 can be canvassed throws into substantial question whether an effective remedy is possible for that section of the female population of Northern Ireland whose foetus has a fatal abnormality or who are pregnant as a result of rape or incest.
Fatal foetal abnormality is frequently not detected until the 20 week scan.
If, for instance, the end point at which a woman may seek an abortion is 24 weeks (as under the Abortion Act 1967), this provides an impossibly short time within which vindication of the womans rights could be achieved.
Moreover, the number of women who have had to endure the