 and made a declaration accordingly, but in the light of the majoritys view of the standing of the NIHRC to bring these proceedings it must follow that we have no jurisdiction formally to declare the majoritys view.
But, as Lord Mance explains in para 135 that does not mean that it can safely be ignored.
LORD MANCE:
Summary
(a) By these proceedings against the Department of Justice and the Attorney General for Northern Ireland (the respondents), the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission (the Commission) challenges the compatibility of the law in Northern Ireland with articles 3 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (the Convention rights), insofar as that law prohibits abortion in cases of fatal and other foetal abnormality, rape and incest. (b) The respondents raise an initial objection to the challenge, that it is outside the Commissions competence (in the sense of power) to institute abstract proceedings of this nature (an actio popularis).
I deal with this issue in paras 47 to 72.
The courts below considered that the Commission had competence.
The Supreme Court concludes by a majority, consisting of Lord Reed, Lady Black, Lord Lloyd Jones and myself, that the objection is well founded and that the courts below were wrong on this issue. (c) It follows that the Supreme Court has no jurisdiction to give any relief in respect of the challenge to Northern Ireland abortion law.
But that challenge has been fully argued, and evidence has been put before the Court about a number of specific cases.
It would, in the circumstances, be unrealistic and unhelpful to refuse to express the conclusions at which I would have arrived, had I concluded that the Commission had competence to pursue the challenge. (d) I would have concluded, without real hesitation at the end of the day, that the current state of Northern Ireland law is incompatible with article 8 of the Convention, insofar as it prohibits abortion in cases of fatal foetal abnormality, rape and incest, but not insofar as it prohibits abortion in cases of serious foetal abnormality: see paras 73 to 134.
That conclusion, obiter in my case, is of the essence of the judgments of the three members of the Court (Lady Hale, Lord Kerr and Lord Wilson) who (dissenting) would have held that the Commission had competence.
Lady Black would (obiter) reach the same conclusion as I do with regard to fatal foetal abnormality, but not rape or incest.
Lord Kerr and Lord Wilson would go further than I would have done and hold that the current law in Northern Ireland law is also incompatible with article 3 of the Convention rights as regards fatal foetal abnormality, rape and incest.
Lady Hales view on this point appears in paras 28 to 30 of her judgment. (e) With that summary, I will turn to introduce the proceedings more fully.
However, those who may at the outset wish to have an idea of the distressing cases to which the Commission has drawn attention in the context of its challenge can look at once at paras 84 to 90 below.
Introduction
This is an appeal in proceedings for judicial review commenced by the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission (the Commission) on 11 December 2014.
By their Order 53 statement, the Commission sought general relief, unrelated to any particular set of facts, consisting of: a. A declaration pursuant to section 6 and section 4 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (the HRA) that sections 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 (the 1861 Act) and section 25 of the Criminal Justice Act (NI) 1945 (the 1945 Act) are incompatible with articles 3, 8 and 14