 it is evident that a majority was prepared to contemplate an amendment of the current law.
For that reason alone, A, B and C v Ireland cannot be regarded as a significant decision in the present case.
Quite apart from that consideration, however, such evidence as is available about the current views of the Northern Ireland population points clearly away from the conclusion that a majority of that countrys population wishes to maintain the law on abortion in its present form.
In 2016 the Northern Ireland Life and Times Survey (NILT Survey) asked the Northern Ireland public for their views on a range of issues relating to abortion and abortion law. 1,208 respondents took part in the survey.
These were chosen as representative of the various social groups in Northern Ireland. 58% of those surveyed considered that where the foetus had a fatal abnormality and would not survive beyond birth, abortion should definitely be legal. 23% felt that abortion in those circumstances should probably be legal, while 6% thought that it should probably be illegal and 10% believed that it should definitely be illegal. 4% were undecided.
The respondents to the survey were also asked for their views on whether abortion should be legal in cases where a woman had become pregnant as a result of rape or incest. 54% said that abortion in those circumstances should definitely be legal. 24% believed that it should probably be legal. 8% considered that it should probably be illegal and 11% were of the view that it should definitely be illegal. 4% were undecided.
At para 141 of his judgment, Horner J said that little weight can be attached to opinion polls as they are dependent on the nature of the questions asked, the circumstances in which they were asked and the nature of the persons sampled.
Weatherup LJ agreed with that view see para 145 of his judgment.
Both Horner J and Weatherup LJ considered that the only reliable indicator of the true nature of public opinion would be a referendum and, as Weatherup LJ observed, this was unlikely to take place in Northern Ireland since referenda were generally reserved for constitutional issues para 145.
It is unquestionably correct that one should be wary of treating opinion polls, however well conducted, as an infallible guide to the views of the people on any particular issue.
That is not to say, however, that they have no usefulness in counteracting a claim as to what the public mood or opinion might be.
I, like Horner J and Weatherup LJ, am not disposed to accept the results of the NILT survey as providing positive evidence of the preponderant view of the people of Northern Ireland on the question of when abortion should be available.
But I am not prepared wholly to discount the NILT survey.
At the least, it serves to cast substantial doubt on the claim made by the respondents that opposition to the change in the law is firmly embedded in the minds and attitudes of the people of Northern Ireland.
I have concluded, therefore, that when the balancing exercise is conducted in this case, the scales fall firmly in favour of a breach of article 8.
Under the current law, no account is taken of a womans right to autonomy.
Severe criminal sanctions are applied to those who obtain an abortion in Northern Ireland save in the narrowly circumscribed circumstances permitted by the 1861 and 1945 Acts.
These undoubtedly have a significant chilling effect both on women who wish to obtain an abortion and doctors who might assist them.
Abortion in cases where there is a fatal foetal abnormality or the pregnancy is the result of rape or incest is available throughout the vast majority of countries in Europe.
The counterweight which the ECtHR found to exist in the A, B and C case (the profound moral values embedded in the fabric of Irish society