 HRA do not apply.
But section 71(2B) contains a number of pointers to the fact that the legislature contemplated that human rights proceedings, for the purposes of section 71(2B), are proceedings which relate to an unlawful act.
That contemplation can be seen in the reference in section 71(2B)(a) to the unlawful act to which the proceedings relate.
The provision in section 71(2B)(c) that the Commission may act only if there is or would be one or more victims of the unlawful act reflects the same contemplation.
It is also consistent with the provision in section 71(2B)(d) that no award of damages may be made to the Commission, whatever the position would be under section 8(3) of the HRA, since section 8 addresses the possibility of an award of damages as a remedy available in relation to an act (or proposed act) which the court finds is (or would be) unlawful.
The other type of proceedings which, under section 71(2C)(a)(i) constitute human rights proceedings for the purposes of section 71(2B) and (2C), consists of proceedings in which a person who is (or would be) a victim of the unlawful act pursuant to section 7(1)(b) of the HRA relies on a Convention right.
Section 71(2C)(a)(i) does not refer to section 7(1)(a), which provides that a person who claims that a public authority has acted or proposes to act in a way made unlawful by section 6(1) of the HRA may bring proceedings against the authority.
It does not follow that its reference to section 7(1)(b) covers only situations where a Convention right is relied on by way of defence, rather than as the basis of a claim.
Section 7(1)(b) is wide enough to cover both.
This type of proceedings will by definition involve the Commission intervening in, rather than instituting, the proceedings within the opening words of section 71(2B).
In this context, section 71(2B) reflects and regulates the existence of the incidental or consequential power which the House of Lords held the Commission to possess in In re Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission: see para 66 below.
The Commission will, in contrast, be acting pursuant to its power under section 69(5)(b) to bring proceedings involving law or practice relating to the protection of human rights, when it institutes human rights proceedings within the opening words of section 71(2B).
The upshot under section 71(2B) and (2C) is that, where the Commission is intervening in human rights proceedings, the person instituting the proceedings must be an actual or potential victim of an unlawful act, and, where the Commission is itself instituting human rights proceedings, it need not be, but there must be an actual or potential victim of an unlawful act to which the proceedings relate.
By section 71(2C)(b), an expression used in subsection (2B) and in section 7 of the HRA has the same meaning in the former as in the latter.
Section 7(1) of the HRA refers to section 6(1) of the HRA for the concept of an unlawful act, and that subsection provides that it is unlawful for a public authority to act in a way which is incompatible with a Convention right.
But the subsection is expressly stated, by section 6(2), not to apply to (in summary) an authoritys act which was (a) compelled by a provision of primary legislation or which was (b) to give effect to or enforce one or more provisions of or