2009] 1 AC 173, para 37: In such a case, it is for the court in the United Kingdom to interpret articles 8 and 14 and to apply the division between the decision making powers of courts and Parliament in the way which appears appropriate for the United Kingdom.
The margin of appreciation is there for division between the three branches of government according to our principles of the separation of powers.
There is no principle by which it is automatically appropriated by the legislative branch.
See also my judgment, at paras 128 130, where I pointed out that Sections 3, 4 and 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998 define the courts role in relation to the new domestic Convention rights.
Courts must act compatibly with them (unless primary legislation precludes this, when all that courts can do is make a declaration of incompatibility).
But I added this important note of caution: In performing their duties under sections 3 and 6, courts must of course give appropriate weight to considerations of relative institutional competence, that is to the decisions of a representative legislature and a democratic government within the discretionary area of judgment accorded to those bodies: see Brown v Stott [2003] 1 AC 681, 703, though the precise weight will depend on inter alia the nature of the right and whether it falls within an area in which the legislature, executive or judiciary can claim particular expertise: see R v Department of Public Prosecution, Ex p Kebilene [2000] 2 AC 326, 381 per Lord Hope of Craighead.
The Supreme Court has quite recently had again to consider its role in relation to the United Kingdom Parliament in a context which can be seen as having both similarities to and differences from the present.
R (Nicklinson) v Ministry of Justice [2015] AC 657 involved the question whether primary legislation which prevented assistance being given to persons with locked in syndrome who wished to commit suicide was compatible with Convention rights.
The Supreme Court by a majority reiterated the applicability in this context of the approach taken in In re G.
But, by a different majority, it also held that it would be inappropriate to make a declaration of incompatibility.
One reason given by some of the members of the majority in this connection was that proportionality is sensitive to considerations of institutional competence and legitimacy and that a further opportunity should be given for both ministerial and Parliamentary reconsideration (see paras 115 116 per Lord Neuberger, paras 166 170 per Lord Mance and para 197(d) per Lord Wilson) without prejudging the position if Parliament chose to maintain the blanket prohibition on assisting suicide.
On the present appeal, the Department of Justice and the Attorney General for Northern Ireland are able to rely on Nicklinson, when submitting that the Northern Ireland Assembly should be given the opportunity of completing its unfinished work of examination of the present law.
The obvious difficulty about this has already been identified.
There is no assurance as to when or even that the Northern Ireland Assembly will resume its activity or address an issue on which it had wished to receive the working party report some 20 months ago.
Nicklinson was also a different case from the present in significant respects.
First, it centred on a difficult balancing exercise between the interests of different adult persons: on the one hand, the sufferer with locked in syndrome, unable to act autonomously, but unable to receive assistance to commit suicide; on the other hand, the others, elderly or infirm, who might feel pressured by others or by themselves to commit suicide, if assistance were permissible.
The balancing of autonomy and suffering against the risks to others was and is a particularly sensitive matter.
The legislature had chosen an absolute protection against the latter risks, with which the