 Northern Irish women wishing to terminate their pregnancy in such circumstances are able to do so by travelling elsewhere.
The consequences are similar to those with which A, B and C was concerned, and do not meet the threshold for a violation of article 3.
Some individual cases have been put forward in which it is said that the women in question were unable to travel abroad as a result of the failure of health professionals to provide them with appropriate assistance and advice, and endured harrowing experiences as a consequence.
It may be that such cases, if established in individual applications, would be found to involve a violation of article 3.
But, disturbing though those cases are, the possibility that there might be a violation of article 3 in an individual case cannot warrant a declaration that the legislation, as such, is incompatible with article 3.
If a breach of article 3 were established in an individual case, the court might grant declaratory relief, but the terms of the relief would reflect the circumstances which had led to the violation.
Whether it was appropriate to grant a declaration that the legislation itself was incompatible, because it could not be given effect in a manner which was compliant with article 3, would depend on a close examination of the facts of the case, and of the role which the legislation had played in bringing about the violation.
In relation to article 8, I agree with Lord Mance that no declaration of incompatibility should be made, but I have reached that conclusion for somewhat different reasons.
I would emphasise at the outset a point which this court has made on several occasions, namely that an ab ante challenge to the validity of legislation on the basis of a lack of proportionality faces a high hurdle: if a legislative provision is capable of being operated in a manner which is compatible with Convention rights in that it will not give rise to an unjustified interference with article 8 rights in all or almost all cases, the legislation itself will not be incompatible with Convention rights: Christian Institute v Lord Advocate [2017] HRLR 19, para 88.
As in relation to article 3, the judgment in A, B and C appears to me to provide valuable guidance.
The practical effect of the law in Northern Ireland, as in Ireland, is to require women to travel elsewhere if they wish to terminate their pregnancy.
The general prohibition on termination for reasons other than a danger to life, or a danger of serious injury to health, is accompanied by guidance to doctors and other professionals on the information and advice which should be provided to women who wish to obtain a termination (Department of Health, Social Services and Public Safety, Guidance for Health and Social Care Professionals on Termination of Pregnancy in Northern Ireland, March 2016).
That guidance advises health professionals that they can provide women who cannot lawfully obtain an abortion in Northern Ireland with information about abortion services lawfully available in other jurisdictions, and about their freedom to travel there.
It also advises health professionals about their responsibility to provide aftercare, counselling and other support services to women who have had a termination of pregnancy carried out outside Northern Ireland.
In those circumstances, I am not persuaded that the issues arising under article 8 in relation to the law in Northern Ireland are in general materially different from those considered in A, B and C, even if one confines ones attention to women undergoing a pregnancy where the foetus is abnormal or has been conceived as the result of a sexual offence.
They are free to travel to England or Scotland, where they can have their pregnancy terminated free of charge in an NHS hospital, provided that the termination is lawful under the law in force there.
They should be able to obtain advice about termination from health professionals in Northern Ireland, and they should receive whatever care they may require in Northern Ireland after the termination has been carried out.
Most of the