951, 966 Lord Woolf referred to the general approach to the interpretations of constitutions and bills of rights indicated in previous decisions of the Board, which he said were equally applicable to the Hong Kong Bill of Rights Ordinance 1991.
He mentioned Lord Wilberforces observation in Minister of Home Affairs v Fisher [1980] AC 319, 328 that instruments of this nature call for a generous interpretation suitable to give to individuals the full measure of the fundamental rights and freedoms referred to, and Lord Diplocks comment in Attorney General of The Gambia v Momodou Jobe [1984] AC 689, 700 that a generous and purposive construction is to be given to that part of a constitution which protects and entrenches fundamental rights and freedoms to which all persons in the state are to be entitled.
The same approach will now have to be applied in this country when issues are raised under the 1998 Act about the compatibility of domestic legislation and of acts of public authorities with the fundamental rights and freedoms which are enshrined in the Convention.
I consider that these strong statements as to the approach to be taken to constitutional provisions provide a powerful indication that the standing of NIHRC to take these proceedings should be recognised.
Article 3 of ECHR
Article 3 provides: No one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
The first thing to notice about this provision is its absolute nature.
It unequivocally forbids torture or treatment which can properly be regarded as inhuman or degrading.
If that threshold is passed, there is no question of mitigation or justification of the action which constitutes the offending behaviour.
The focus is directly on the behaviour said to constitute torture or inhuman or degrading treatment rather than on the circumstances in which it occurred or the avowed reasons for it.
If the treatment to which an individual is subjected can properly be regarded as torture or inhuman or degrading, it does not matter a whit what the person or agency which is responsible for the perpetration of that treatment considers to be the justification for it.
Nor does it matter that it is believed to be necessary to inflict the treatment to protect the interests of others.
Torture and inhuman or degrading treatment are forbidden.
That is an end of it.
But the anterior question, whether the threshold has been passed; whether the complained of behaviour is torture or inhuman or degrading treatment, does not, in every instance, leave out of account the purpose of the conduct.
In Gfgen v Germany (2010) 52 EHRR 1, para 88 the Strasbourg court said: In order for ill treatment to fall within the scope of article 3 it must attain a minimum level of severity.
The assessment of this minimum depends on all the circumstances of the case, such as the duration of the treatment, its physical or mental effects and, in some cases, the sex, age and state of health of the victim.
Further factors include the purpose for which the treatment was inflicted together with the intention or motivation behind it, as well as its context, such as an atmosphere of heightened tension and emotions.
It is necessary to treat this statement with some care, however.
The three cases referred to in footnote 38 to the paragraph and which are said to support the proposition that the purpose or motivation of the persons inflicting the treatment was relevant and whether it had occurred at a time of heightened tension was material were Aksoy v Turkey (1996) 23 EHRR 553 (at para 64); Egmez v Cyprus (2000) 34 EHRR 29 (at para 78); and Krastanov v Bulgaria (2004) 41 EHRR 50 (at para 53).
These cases were concerned