 minimum level of severity if it was to fall within the scope of article 3, and concluded that the facts alleged did not disclose a level of severity falling within the scope of the article.
The complaint under article 3 was found to be manifestly ill founded.
In relation to article 8, it was argued on behalf of the first and second applicants, as in the present case, that it had not been shown that the restrictions were effective in achieving the aim pursued: the abortion rate for women in Ireland was similar to states where abortion was legal since Irish women chose to travel abroad for abortions in any event.
Even if the restrictions were effective, the first and second applicants questioned how the Irish state could maintain the legitimacy of their aim given the opposite moral viewpoint espoused by human rights bodies worldwide.
They also suggested that the current prohibition on abortion in Ireland no longer reflected the views of the Irish people, arguing that there was evidence of greater support for broader access to legal abortion.
It was pointed out that the financial burden of travel impacted particularly on poor women and their families.
It was also emphasised that women experienced the stigma and psychological burden of doing something abroad which was a serious criminal offence in their own country.
The extent of the prohibition on abortion in Ireland also stood in stark contrast to the more flexible regimes for which there was a clear European and international consensus.
Reliance was placed, in that regard, on a range of international materials, including material produced by CEDAW.
There was in addition said to be a lack of assistance by doctors, due to the chilling effect of a lack of clear legal procedures combined with the risk of serious criminal and professional sanctions.
In response, the European Court of Human Rights referred to its previous case law finding that the protection afforded under Irish law to the right to life of the unborn was based on profound moral values concerning the nature of life.
It referred to its finding in Vo v France (2004) 40 EHRR 12 that it was neither desirable nor possible to answer the question of whether the unborn was a person for the purposes of article 2 of the Convention, so that it would be equally legitimate for a state to choose to consider the unborn to be such a person and to aim to protect that life.
In relation to the balancing exercise required by article 8, the court observed that the state authorities are, in principle, in a better position than the international judge to give an opinion, not only on the exact content of the requirements of morals in their country, but also on the necessity of a restriction intended to meet them (para 232).
It continued: There can be no doubt as to the acute sensitivity of the moral and ethical issues raised by the question of abortion or as to the importance of the public interest at stake.
A broad margin of appreciation is, therefore, in principle to be accorded to the Irish state in determining the question whether a fair balance was struck between the protection of that public interest, notably the protection accorded under Irish law to the right to life of the unborn, and the conflicting rights of the first and second applicants to respect for their private lives under article 8 of the Convention. (para 233)
This broad margin of appreciation was not decisively narrowed by the consensus among other contracting states towards allowing abortion on broader grounds than under Irish law (a consensus which, the court said, made it unnecessary to look further to international trends and views): Of central importance is the finding in the above cited Vo case, referred to above, that the question of when the right to life begins came within the states margin of appreciation because there was no European consensus on the scientific and legal definition of the beginning of life, so that it was impossible to answer the question whether the unborn was a person to be protected for the purposes of article 2