 (No 2) Lord Hope noted that no claim had been made by a victim that a public authority had acted in a way that was unlawful under section 6(1) of HRA para 91.
None of these three cases was brought in reliance on section 7(1) of HRA.
In none of them was the lack of a victim considered to render the claims unfeasible.
The cases exemplify the first of the two mechanisms adumbrated by Lord Rodger in Wilson v First County Trust (No 2), namely a challenge to the compatibility of legislation which is not associated with a challenge to an act of a public authority said to be in violation of a Convention right.
In extremely helpful submissions prepared by Mr Coppel QC on behalf of the equivalent body in Great Britain, the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), it has been argued that the Equality Act 2006 (EA) invests EHRC with the power to institute proceedings which challenge the compatibility of legislation with ECHR.
By virtue of section 30(1) of EA, EHRC has the capacity to institute or intervene in legal proceedings, whether for judicial review or otherwise, if it appears to the Commission that the proceedings are relevant to a matter in connection with which the Commission has a function.
As with section 71A of NIA, EHRC is exempted from the victim requirement in relation to proceedings under section 7(1)(b) of HRA section 30(3) of EA.
Mr Coppel QC argues that, given the enforcement mechanisms contained in the HRA, such proceedings may be constituted as section 7 HRA proceedings which challenge the act of a public authority as being contrary to section 6(1) HRA, or they may be founded on sections 3 and 4 HRA so as to seek a compatible interpretation of primary legislation, or challenge that legislation as incompatible, without there being any allegation of breach of section 6(1) HRA.
Proceedings brought by the EHRC in the latter category would, he says, unquestionably be relevant to the EHRCs functions (for example) to promote protection of human rights and, in certain cases, to encourage compliance with section 6 HRA.
This can be achieved by establishing a Convention compliant interpretation of legislation or by the remedying of incompatible legislation following a declaration of incompatibility.
Either outcome will constrain public authorities to act compatibly with Convention rights.
I accept Mr Coppels submissions.
They have not been challenged by the respondents to this appeal.
It would be wholly anomalous that NIHRC should not be competent to institute proceedings challenging the compatibility of legislation with ECHR unless it identified a victim and a specific unlawful act, when EHRC had been relieved of those requirements.
This is especially so given that the insertions into the NIA by the Justice and Security (Northern Ireland) Act were made in the year following the EA.
The Attorney General has argued that the reason for requiring an actual unlawful act and a specifically identified victim is to avoid challenges to the law in the abstract it is not sufficient, he contends, to claim that the mere existence of a law violates Convention rights.
This argument is misconceived for two reasons.
First, such a restriction would only be appropriate to prevent individuals from bringing challenges which serve no practical purpose.
It should not operate to inhibit the bringing of proceedings by statutory bodies which have been specifically empowered to do so in order to address violations of Convention rights.
Secondly, this is not in any sense an actio popularis.
It is not an academic challenge brought against obsolete legislation.
The 1861 and the 1945 Acts have a direct impact on individuals, as the cases discussed in the first part of this judgment amply demonstrate.
It is notable that