85).
As already stated, the guarantees contained in the ECHR should be interpreted in the light of other relevant international human rights instruments.
Some may think that the CEDAW Committees recommendations strike the right balance, but I recognise and understand that others may think that they do not give sufficient weight to the valuable and rewarding lives led by many people with serious disabilities.
Article 3
Article 3 differs from article 8 in several ways.
First, the right not to be subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment is absolute it is not to be balanced against any other rights, including the right to life of people whose lives might be saved if, for example, a prisoner were tortured in order to discover their whereabouts.
Second, therefore, the treatment complained of has to reach what is referred to as a minimum level of severity but which actually means a high level of severity in order to attract the prohibition.
Third, although the motive with which the treatment is inflicted may be relevant, the principal focus is upon the effect upon the victim.
I have no doubt that the risk of prosecution of the woman, and of those who help her, thus forcing her to take that risk if she procures an illegal abortion in Northern Ireland, or to travel to Great Britain if she is able to arrange that, constitutes treatment by the State for this purpose.
It is the State which is subjecting her to the agonising dilemma.
I also have little doubt that there will be some women whose suffering on being denied a lawful abortion in Northern Ireland, in the three situations under discussion here, will reach the threshold of severity required to label the treatment inhuman or degrading.
This is another respect in which article 3 is unlike article 8.
In every case where a woman is denied a lawful abortion in Northern Ireland which she seeks in the three situations under discussion, her article 8 rights have been violated.
But it cannot be said that every woman who is denied an abortion in such circumstances will suffer so severely that her rights under article 3 have been violated.
It depends upon an intense focus on the facts of the individual case which the article 8 question, at least in the three cases under discussion, does not.
This is not a situation, as it is under article 8, where the operation of the law is bound to produce incompatible results in every case.
But neither is it a situation where the law can always be operated compatibly with the Convention rights if the public authority takes care to act in a way which respects those rights.
Rather, it is a situation in which the law is bound to operate incompatibly in some cases.
I have sympathy for the view expressed by Lord Kerr that the risk of acting incompatibly with article 3 rights is such as to engage the positive obligation of the state to prevent that risk materialising; but it is unnecessary to decide the point, in the light of my conclusion that the present law is incompatible with article 8 in the three respects discussed above.
Remedy
I have reached the following conclusions (i) that the NIHRC does have standing to challenge the legislation in question here; (ii) that, in denying a lawful abortion in Northern Ireland to a woman who wishes it in cases of rape, incest and fatal foetal abnormality, the law is incompatible with article 8 of the Convention; and (iii) that it will also operate incompatibly with article 3 of the Convention in some cases.
I agree, for the reasons given by Lord Kerr, that the incompatibility with article 8 cannot be cured by further reading down of section 58 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 under section 3 of the HRA.
Should we therefore make a declaration of incompatibility under section 4 of the HRA