 conclusion of incompatibility is appropriate in relation to cases where there is a diagnosis of fatal foetal abnormality or where the pregnancy is due to rape or incest.
Should this Court leave the position in relation to these categories to be considered further whenever the Northern Ireland Assembly resumes operation and receives whatever report or recommendations the working group presents? First, there is the consideration that it is unclear what will happen in Northern Ireland, in particular whether and when the Assembly will resume its operations.
But this is not itself decisive.
What is clear is that the issue has been under discussion for some five years, since it was first raised by the Commission, without any definite upshot.
Further, if we were to refrain now from any conclusion on it, or were to defer to the Assembly for the time being, in order for it to reach and express its own definitive position, we would have in my opinion to do so on the basis that it would then still be open to a person affected to return to court to have the matter finally resolved, if the legislature did not amend the existing law in the three areas identified.
In my opinion, that is not an appropriate course, as the need for such amendment is evident and the outcome of any further litigation would in that respect be inevitable.
I am in short satisfied that the present legislative position in Northern Ireland is untenable and intrinsically disproportionate in excluding from any possibility of abortion pregnancies involving fatal foetal abnormality or due to rape or incest.
My conclusions about the Commissions lack of competence to bring these proceedings means that there is however no question of making any declaration of incompatibility.
But the present law clearly needs radical reconsideration.
Those responsible for ensuring the compatibility of Northern Ireland law with the Convention rights will no doubt recognise and take account of these conclusions, at as early a time as possible, by considering whether and how to amend the law, in the light of the ongoing suffering being caused by it as well as the likelihood that a victim of the existing law would have standing to pursue similar proceedings to reach similar conclusions and to obtain a declaration of incompatibility in relation to the 1861 Act.
LORD KERR: (with whom Lord Wilson agrees)
Introduction
(a) Fatal foetal abnormality
Ashleigh Topley married in September 2012.
She and her husband had been together for seven years before they married.
They wanted to have children and they stopped using contraception shortly after their wedding.
In October 2013, to her great joy, Mrs Topley discovered that she was pregnant.
Her baby was due to be born in July 2014.
On 14 February, she attended hospital for a 20 week scan.
It was diagnosed that the foetus was suffering from a fatal form of skeletal dysplasia.
Mr and Mrs Topley were told that their baby would die either in the womb or within a short time of birth.
As it happens, their daughter, Katy, died before her birth on 26 May 2014, when Mrs Topley was 35 weeks pregnant.
A post mortem examination revealed that she had suffered from osteogenesis imperfecta, type 2, a form of skeletal dysplasia.
Mrs Topley has provided a moving account of the harrowing ordeal that she and her husband faced after they learned that their baby would not survive.
They received conflicting advice as to whether a termination of her pregnancy would be possible.
She had to endure the experience of receiving congratulations from well intentioned individuals about the impending birth, while she was trying to come to terms with the awful reality that her baby would not survive.
The three months between February and May 2014 were deeply traumatic for her.
She summarised her plight in this passage of her witness statement: It was clear to me that the current 