 the protection of the unborn child was an aspect of the moral values of the people of Northern Ireland, whereas the Attorney General in the appeal before this court appears to have espoused a legitimate aim which asserts the protection of the unborn child as an intrinsic value.
If the legitimate aim is as the Court of Appeal expressed it to be, like Weatherup LJ, I have difficulty in understanding how the moral values of the population of Northern Ireland permit abortion to take place when there is a threat of serious, long term ill health to the mother but forbid it where that cannot be said to be present but the mother finds the pregnancy repugnant and a constant reminder of the sexual abuse to which she has been subjected.
As Weatherup LJ said (at para 172), the underlying rationale for the exclusion of pregnancy arising from rape or incest by reference to the moral view on the protection of the unborn child is absent from the case presented on behalf of the respondents.
If the Attorney General is right and the protection of the unborn child has an intrinsic value, freestanding of considerations of morality, it may well be that there is no less intrusive means of securing that value than by forbidding abortion in all cases save where there is a serious long term risk to the health of the mother.
The Attorney General has not explained why the protection of the unborn child should be segregated from the moral values of the people of Northern Ireland, however.
Moreover, the majority in A, B and C v Ireland, on which both respondents so crucially rely, identified the moral values of the population of Ireland as a critical feature in the justification for the restriction on abortion in that country.
Since, however, the respondents avowed justification for interference with the rights of girls and women made pregnant as the result of rape or incest fails at the fourth stage of the proportionality exercise, I do not propose to discuss this issue further.
A fair balance?
As with the least intrusive means stage, so the discussion as to whether a fair balance is struck between the rights of the mother (whose foetus has a fatal abnormality or is the result of rape or incest) and the interests of the community, must begin with a clear sighted appreciation of the fundamental nature of the right involved.
A woman who knows that the foetus will not survive or one who has been impregnated as a result of rape or incest and who wishes to have her pregnancy terminated is, under the current law of Northern Ireland, coerced to carry her baby to term, or to leave her country and travel abroad to have that wish fulfilled.
For the reasons that I have given, I consider that requiring such a woman to do so amounts to exposing her to a breach of her article 3 rights.
It follows that placing her under such duress cannot be said to strike a fair balance between her fundamental right under article 8 and the interests of the community.
Even if I had decided that no breach of article 3 was involved, however, I would have concluded that a fair balance is not struck between the competing interests and I now give my reasons for that conclusion.
Much has been made by the respondents about the margin of appreciation that Strasbourg has accorded to the contracting states of the Council of Europe in the field of social policy.
It has been suggested in particular that, in relation to abortion in Ireland, a wide margin of freedom in decision making must be afforded to the state because of the sensitivity which attends this difficult and delicate subject.
Before examining the ECtHR jurisprudence in this area, it is necessary to remember that the margin of appreciation principle is one which is not relevant in the domestic setting, at least not in the sense that the expression has been used by the Strasbourg court.
The margin of appreciation principle applied on the pan European plane by the supra national court in