 act includes a failure to act but does not include a introduce in, or lay before, Parliament a proposal 7. Proceedings. (1) A person who claims that a public authority has acted (or proposes to act) in a way which is made unlawful by section 6(1) may (a) bring proceedings against the authority under this Act in the appropriate court or tribunal, or rely on the Convention right or rights concerned (b) in any legal proceedings, but only if he is (or would be) a victim of the unlawful act. (2) In subsection (1)(a) appropriate court or tribunal means such court or tribunal as may be determined in accordance with rules; and proceedings against an authority include a counterclaim or similar proceeding. (3) If the proceedings are brought on an application for judicial review, the applicant is to be taken to have a sufficient interest in relation to the unlawful act only if he is, or would be, a victim of that act. (4) (5) Proceedings under subsection (1)(a) must be brought before the end of the period of one year beginning with the date on (a) which the act complained of took place; or (b) considers equitable having regard circumstances, such longer period as the court or tribunal to all the but that is subject to any rule imposing a stricter time limit in relation to the procedure in question. (6) In subsection (1)(b) legal proceedings includes (a) proceedings brought by or at the instigation of a public authority; and (b) tribunal. an appeal against the decision of a court or (7) For the purposes of this section, a person is a victim of an unlawful act only if he would be a victim for the purposes of article 34 of the Convention if proceedings were brought in the European Court of Human Rights in respect of that act. 8.
Judicial remedies. (1) In relation to any act (or proposed act) of a public authority which the court finds is (or would be) unlawful, it may grant such relief or remedy, or make such order, within its powers as it considers just and appropriate. (2) But damages may be awarded only by a court which has power to award damages, or to order the payment of compensation, in civil proceedings. (3) No award of damages is to be made unless, taking account of all the circumstances of the case, including any other relief or remedy granted, or order (a) made, in relation to the act in question (by that or any other court), and (b) other court) in respect of that act, the consequences of any decision (of that or any the court is satisfied that the award is necessary to afford just satisfaction to the person in whose favour it is made. (4) In determining (a) whether to award damages, or (b) the amount of an award, the court must take into account the principles applied by the European Court of Human Rights in relation to the award of compensation under article 41 of the Convention.
The Commission relies on section 69(5)(b) of the NI Act 1998 for its power to bring these proceedings.
But proceedings relying wholly or partly on section 69(5)(b) constitute, under section 71(2C)(a)(ii), human rights proceedings and are subject therefore to the restrictions (taking this word from the heading of section 71) in section 71(2B).
Under section 71(2B)(a), the Commission need not itself be a victim or potential victim of the unlawful act to which the proceedings relates and, consistently with this, section 71(2B)(b) provides that sections 7(3) and (4) of the