, 125 and 126.
As to the considerations identified in paras 123 and 124, pregnancy following rape must be considered on the assumption that the foetus is perfectly viable.
The moral beliefs or policy relied on to justify the current law focus on that point.
But pregnancy following rape presents anguish of a different nature, certainly comparable in severity with that imposed on a woman who is expected to carry a foetus with a fatal abnormality to term.
In the case of a pregnancy resulting from rape, a woman is not just expected to carry the foetus to birth, as long as the experience does not end her life or ruin her health (the consideration identified in para 125).
She is also potentially responsible for the child once born, under a relationship which may continue as long as both live.
Causing a woman to become pregnant and bear a child against her will (as by a negligently performed vasectomy of a partner in McFarlane v Tayside Health Board [2000] 2 AC 59) was described in Parkinson v St James and Seacroft University Hospital NHS Trust [2001] EWCA Civ 530; [2002] QB 266, para 58 as an invasion of that fundamental right to bodily integrity.
Hale LJ went on there to describe the profound physical and psychological changes involved in pregnancy, as well as the continuing responsibilities, legal and practical, of a mother after giving birth, of which, short of adoption, she cannot rid herself.
The additional burden and torment of being expected to carry to birth and thereafter to live with a baby who is the product of a rape can only be imagined.
Sexual crime is, as Horner J said at para 161 the grossest intrusion on a womans autonomy in the vilest of circumstances.
This is a situation where the law should protect the abused woman, not perpetuate her suffering.
That this trauma will not by definition amount to serious and long term psychological injury seems to me quite insufficient to outweigh this consideration.
Again, there is the possibility, very probably taken up by most in these categories, of travelling abroad for an abortion (the consideration identified in para 126).
Again, I am unable to regard this as any justification of the law.
On the contrary and for reasons already given in para 126, I regard it rather as a factor confirming its disproportionality.
The current law in Northern Ireland does not significantly achieve its object.
It stresses and humiliates the majority and victimises the minority.
I therefore conclude that the current law is disproportionate in relation to cases of pregnancy due to rape.
Incest
It is clear from the legislation itself, briefly outlined in para 44 above, that there are differences between cases which fall, colloquially though no longer in law, under the head of incest.
Cases of pregnancy resulting from sexual activity with a child, falling within article 32 of the 2008 Order, are clearly at one end of a scale.
But Professor Jennifer Temkin LLD of Sussex University, an expert in the field, also records (citing in support D E H Russells Sexual Exploitation (1984), p 114) that: The general view is, however, that incest rarely commences above the age of 20 but having started at a younger age may continue into adulthood. (Do we need the Crime of Incest? (1991) Current Legal Problems 185, 187.) Further, the Home Office White Paper Protecting the Public Strengthening Protection Against Sex Offenders and Reforming the Law on Sexual Offences, (2002), Cm 5668, which preceded the Sexual Offences Act 2003 in England and Wales stated (para 59) that there is evidence that some adult familial relationships are the result of long