 renewing the pressure on her to keep the baby; she was unlawfully separated from her mother; when she sought police protection from harassment by anti abortion protesters, she was arrested on suspicion of having had unlawful sexual intercourse; she and her mother received contradictory information from two public hospitals as to whether they needed a referral from the regional consultant for gynaecology and obstetrics in addition to the certificate from the prosecutor, as to who could perform the abortion, who could make a decision, whether there was any waiting time prescribed by law, and what other conditions, if any, had to be complied with; finally, mother and daughter were compelled to travel a considerable distance in clandestine conditions in order for the abortion to be carried out.
The Strasbourg court, in considering whether a breach of article 3 had been made out, placed considerable emphasis on the first applicants vulnerability.
At paras 161 and 162 of its judgment, the court said this: 161.
For the courts assessment of this complaint it is of a cardinal importance that the first applicant was at the material time only 14 years old.
The certificate issued by the prosecutor confirmed that her pregnancy had resulted from unlawful intercourse.
The court cannot overlook the fact that the medical certificate issued immediately afterwards confirmed bruises on her body and concluded that physical force had been used to overcome her resistance. 162.
In the light of the above, the court has no choice but to conclude that the first applicant was in a situation of great vulnerability.
The court concluded that Ps treatment at the hands of the authorities was deplorable and so it undoubtedly was.
The Lord Chief Justice in the present case said that the P and S judgment demonstrates the high level of severity required in this context para 59.
If by that, Sir Declan meant that, in every instance, an ordeal akin to that suffered by P was required to establish a breach of article 3, I do not agree.
The Strasbourg court in its judgment in P and S was careful to repeat the definition of degrading treatment offered in RR v Poland; Iwanczuk v Poland (2004) 38 EHRR 148; and Wikiorko v Poland (Application No 14612/02 unreported 31 March 2009) see para 159.
Feelings of fear, anguish and inferiority capable of humiliating and debasing those affected by ill treatment can be aroused by conduct of a different stripe from that endured by P and her mother in the P and S case.
Could it be said, for instance, that the child whose case was described by Ms Purvis and which is detailed in para 10 above, did not suffer such feelings and did not feel humiliated and debased as a consequence?
We need to be clear about what the current law requires of women in this context.
It is not less than that they cede control of their bodies to the edict of legislation passed (in the case of the 1861 Act) more than 150 years ago and (in the case of the 1945 Act) almost 75 years ago.
Binding the girls and women of Northern Ireland to that edict means that they may not assert their autonomy in their own country.
They are forbidden to do to their own bodies that which they wish to do; they are prevented from arranging their lives in the way that they want; they are denied the chance to shape their future as they desire.
If, as well as the curtailment on their autonomy which this involves, they are carrying a foetus with a fatal abnormality or have been the victims of rape or incest, they are condemned, because legislation enacted in another era has decreed it, to endure untold suffering and desolation.
What is that, if it is not humiliation and debasement?
Con