 with, inter alia, the question whether the deliberate assault of the victim constituted torture or what might be regarded as the lesser wrongdoing of meting out inhuman or degrading ill treatment.
The decisions of the Strasbourg court in those cases linked the issue of torture (or the absence of it) to the question whether police officers were seeking to extract a confession.
This confines the issue of motivation or purpose to a relatively narrow compass.
It is understandable that ill treatment designed to extract information might be regarded as torture because it has that purpose, while the same treatment with no particular motivation would not qualify.
It is important to note, however, that the treatment complained of in all three cases was considered to be in breach of article 3.
It was inhuman or degrading.
So, the decisions in those cases are a far cry from saying that the motivation of the inflictor of the ill treatment will always be relevant to, much less determinative of, the question of whether that ill treatment crosses the threshold which article 3 prescribes.
It appears to me, therefore, that examination of the purpose of the offending behaviour or of the motivation of the person or the state which perpetrates it is principally, if not exclusively, concerned with an assessment of whether treatment which might otherwise not meet the standard set by article 3 crosses the threshold by reason of that motivation or purpose.
One can readily understand why this should be so.
Conduct which is offensive but, examined out of context lacking in the necessary level of severity to amount to a breach of article 3, can be converted to that condition where there are base motives for its infliction because this can contribute to its degrading or inhuman qualities.
It is more difficult to see how the motivation of the inflictor of the treatment or the purpose of its being inflicted, can convert behaviour which would otherwise meet article 3 standards to a condition where it does not.
In this connection, what ECtHR had to say in para 151 of RR v Poland (2011) 53 EHRR 31 is relevant: Although the purpose of [alleged ill treatment] is a factor to be taken into account, in particular whether it was intended to humiliate or debase the victim, the absence of any such purpose does not inevitably lead to a finding that there has been no violation of article 3.
To bring these considerations home to the present case, I do not accept that the purpose of preserving the impugned provisions of the 1861 and 1945 Acts is relevant to the question whether their effect constitutes torture or inhuman or degrading treatment.
That effect must be independently examined for its potential to qualify as treatment forbidden by article 3.
If it is found to reach that standard, it cannot be diminished or rescued from the status of article 3 ill treatment by what might be said to be laudable motives or objectives.
If I am wrong in that conclusion and it is relevant to take into account the purpose of preserving the impugned legislative provisions and the motivation of those responsible for their preservation, I consider that no great weight should be accorded to those factors in the present case.
One begins with the premise that the primary focus of article 3 is on its effect on the victim.
Where that effect is, by any objective standard, plainly degrading or inhumane, very considerable and provable benefits would surely be required to displace the primary position.
It has been claimed that some 100,000 people in Northern Ireland are alive today because of the law in relation to abortion in that province.
That claim featured in a poster issued by the pro life campaign group, Both Lives Matter, in January 2017.
The poster was the subject of a complaint to the Advertising Standards Agency (ASA).
It was suggested