As to fatal or lethal abnormality, he summarises clinicians typical understanding of that term as applying where a foetus is diagnosed as liable to die during pregnancy, labour or within a short period of birth (para 17), and adds that clinicians are well able to accurately diagnose antenatally whether a foetus has a condition which is incompatible with life, whether in the sense that it is unlikely to be able to continue to term, to survive the birth process or to be able to maintain its vital functions independently for anything more than a few days (para 20).
Professor Dornan also explains the risks of, in particular, sepsis to the physical health of a mother of an abnormal foetus, which may die and remain undetected in utero for a significant period (up to two weeks), as well as the significant risks to the mental health of a mother required to continue with a pregnancy knowing that her baby has a fatal abnormality and may die at any moment.
Horner J accepted that The doctors know when the foetus has an FFA (a fatal foetal) abnormality.
This is primarily a medical diagnosis not a legal judgment (para 160).
Before the Supreme Court Christian Action and Research in Education (CARE), ADF International (UK) and Professor Patricia Casey as joint interveners suggested that other professional opinion differed but the evidence before the judge and his finding were clear.
Factual cases put in evidence
The Commissions case on the issue before the Court is supported by evidence relating to a selection of pregnant women.
Their experiences are harrowing.
Three cases concern foetal abnormality.
In the first, Ashleigh Topley recounts her joy as a prospective mother in 2013, up to the point when a 20 week scan revealed her babys severe bone abnormality, with a fatal prognosis.
A doctor explained that an abortion would be a possibility, only for that relatively hopeful outcome to be shattered by a consultants distressingly blunt statement the next day: Well, thats not going to happen, followed by another to the effect that, if Mrs Topley were to continue with the pregnancy, things would just proceed as normal.
A later consultants appointment confirmed that the babys condition meant that it could survive through Mrs Topley in the womb, unless and until its heart ran out of room, but would not survive birth.
At 35 weeks pregnant, her waters broke and she gave birth to a girl, whose appearance indicated that her heart had probably stopped beating two or so days earlier.
During and after the pregnancy, Mrs Topley faced the ordeal of others congratulating her on her pregnancy or asking about the baby.
A second sad case is that of Sarah Ewart, on whose behalf as an intervener the Supreme Court has received both written and oral submissions.
In summer 2013, just prior to 20 weeks into her pregnancy, a scan revealed that her baby had anencephaly, the lack of a developed brain and skull.
She was told that there was no risk to her health, and that the baby would be monitored fortnightly and labour induced if it was then discovered that it had died.
She did not feel that she could say that her mental health was at risk (and a consultant psychiatrist later confirmed that he could not predict this either).
She was horrified to discover that, without a skull, the baby could not travel down the birth canal, and decided that she could not face the prospect of a long and painful labour.
Her mother contacted Assembly and Westminster representatives, with scant results.
Her doctor explained the guidelines for abortion (presumably those developed after the FPANI case), and that nothing could be done for Ms Ewart in Northern Ireland, adding that she wasnt going to prison for anyone.
The concerns of Ms Ewart, her