 8, Morgan LCJ, after reviewing European authorities, particularly A, B and C v Ireland [2010] 53 EHRR 13, concluded that the article 8 claim did not succeed, although, as observed above, he considered that the principles in Bourne could be applied to the cases of Mrs Topley and Mrs Ewart.
The Lord Chief Justice conducted a close examination of the A, B and C case and concluded that it did not lend decisive weight to the arguments advanced by the Attorney General and the Department of Justice para 74.
Gillen LJ disagreed.
He considered that the A, B and C case established that a broad margin of appreciation should be accorded to the contracting states of the Council of Europe on the question of the legal requirements for lawful abortion paras 103 105.
Weatherup LJ expressed what he described as a provisional view that the restriction on the termination of pregnancy in cases of fatal foetal abnormality and as a result of rape and incest would amount to a breach of the right to respect for private life under article 8.
He considered, however, that it would not be institutionally appropriate for the court to intervene see para 178 of his judgment.
Standing
The discussion about the standing of the Commission to bring these proceedings begins with the Belfast Agreement and the influence which it had on the NIA.
That Act was introduced to implement the agreement made in Belfast between various political parties in Northern Ireland on 10 April of that year (1998).
Paragraph 5 of Strand One of the agreement stated that safeguards would be put in place to ensure that all sections of the community were protected.
Those safeguards were to include the rights guaranteed by ECHR.
By para 5 of Strand Three, dealing with new institutions, it was provided that NIHRC would be established.
Its task would be to keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness of laws and practices, making recommendations to Government as necessary; providing information and promoting awareness of human rights; considering draft legislation referred to them by the new Assembly; and, in appropriate cases, bringing court proceedings or providing assistance to individuals doing so.
This aspiration found expression in section 69 of NIA.
It deals with the Commissions functions.
Subsection (1) reflects para 5 of Strand Three and provides that NIHRC should keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness in Northern Ireland of laws and practice relating to the protection of human rights.
Subsection (3) enjoins the Commission to advise the Secretary of State and the Executive Committee of the Northern Ireland Assembly of legislative and other measures which ought to be taken into account to protect human rights and subsection (4) requires NIHRC to advise the Assembly whether a Bill which it proposes to pass is compatible with human rights.
Subsection (6) emphasises the broad scope of the Commissions remit in relation to the protection of human rights.
It is required to promote understanding and awareness of the importance of human rights in Northern Ireland and for this purpose it may undertake or commission research and educational activities.
The provision in section 69 which is most directly relevant to the issue of NIHRCs standing to bring the present proceedings is subsection (5).
It provides: The Commission may (a) give assistance to individuals in accordance with section 70; and (b) bring proceedings involving law or practice relating to the protection of human rights.
The approach to the interpretation of these provisions should start with the general proposition that it would be anomalous if NIHRC did not have the power to challenge the compatibility of legislation with the provisions of ECHR, given its principal stated function (in section 69(1)) see para 169 above.
An obvious way in which that function can be fulfilled is that the Commission should have the opportunity to present a legal challenge to potentially incompatible legislation.
It