R 120.
Before examining those decisions, it is to be noted that, as Sir Declan observed in para 53 of his judgment, the threshold level for the engagement of article 3 is relative.
In other words, whether the treatment complained of is to be regarded as torture or inhuman or degrading depends on a close examination of the individual circumstances of any case in which breach of article 3 is claimed.
Those individual circumstances must comprehend not only the nature of the behaviour but also its effect on those affected by it and a number of other factors.
As the ECtHR said in Ireland v United Kingdom (1978) 2 EHRR 25: It depends on all the circumstances of the case, such as the nature and context of the treatment, the manner and method of its execution, its duration, its physical or mental effects and, in some cases, the sex, age and state of health of the victim.
It is not appropriate, therefore, to categorise those wishing to have a termination of pregnancy as inhabiting a single class of persons and to theorise that a high level of severity is required before article 3 is engaged for any member of that group.
The same law may affect different women in different ways.
The fact that some feel able to face an ordeal with stoicism or even equanimity, does not mean that others, who do not react in the same way, and who suffer severe trauma when confronted with the same prospect as those who can contemplate it equably, cannot be the victims of an article 3 breach.
That is not to say, however, that those women and girls who become pregnant as a result of rape or incest, or who have been found to be bearing foetuses with serious or fatal abnormality do not share certain characteristics.
Rape or incest victims are in a highly vulnerable group para 162 of P and S v Poland.
Being required to give birth to a child which is the result of sexual abuse or assault carries at least the risk of having to endure treatment which is forbidden by article 3.
Likewise, a woman who is obliged to carry to term a foetus who is fatally malformed is placed in a position of similar peril see RR v Poland at para 159.
A law which forbids a woman, impregnated as a result of sexual assault, from avoiding its consequence, when the continuation of the pregnancy is utterly abhorrent to her and when it will prolong and intensify her suffering, faces a formidable hurdle in its defence to a claim that it violates her article 3 rights.
So does a law which demands that a woman, who has been told that the foetus she carries cannot survive, but must nevertheless be sustained by her until his or her inevitable demise, with all the horrible effects that will be visited on the mother during the period, must live with that knowledge.
The cases which NIHRC have cited exemplify the agony of such women.
In Tysiac v Poland a pregnant woman was denied an abortion, notwithstanding her general medical practitioners opinion that her already significant myopia would deteriorate if she was to give birth.
Ophthalmic specialists disagreed.
ECtHR found that she had been the victim of a breach of article 8 of ECHR.
The court dealt perfunctorily with her claim under article 3, stating in para 68 that the facts did not disclose a breach of the article.
The judgment did not elaborate on the reasons for this conclusion.
I do not consider that this case assists in the present appeal, at least not on the issue of article 3.
A, B and C v Ireland was a case in which three women had been required to travel from Ireland to the United Kingdom to obtain an abortion.
It will be necessary to consider the case in some detail in