.
Since the rights claimed on behalf of the foetus and those of the mother are inextricably interconnected, the margin of appreciation accorded to a states protection of the unborn necessarily translates into a margin of appreciation for that state as to how it balances the conflicting rights of the mother.
It follows that, even if it appears from the national laws referred to that most contracting parties may in their legislation have resolved those conflicting rights and interests in favour of greater legal access to abortion, this consensus cannot be a decisive factor. (para 237)
The court noted that the states margin of appreciation was not unlimited.
It emphasised, however, that the law in Ireland was the product of considered democratic debate: From the lengthy, complex and sensitive debate in Ireland as regards the content of its abortion laws, a choice has emerged.
Irish law prohibits abortion in Ireland for health and well being reasons but allows women, in the first and second applicants position who wish to have an abortion for those reasons, the option of lawfully travelling to another state to do so. (para 239) The court also placed some emphasis on the fact that the prohibition of abortion in Ireland was accompanied by measures designed to assist certain categories of women in obtaining access to abortion facilities elsewhere: On the one hand, the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution removed any legal impediment to adult women travelling abroad for an abortion and to obtaining information in Ireland in that respect.
Legislative measures were then adopted to ensure the provision of information and counselling about, inter alia, the options available including abortions services abroad, and to ensure any necessary medical treatment before, and more particularly after, an abortion.
The importance of the role of doctors in providing information on all options available, including abortion abroad, and their obligation to provide all appropriate medical care, notably post abortion, is emphasised in CPA [Crisis Pregnancy Agency] work and documents and in professional medical guidelines. (ibid)
In those circumstances, although the court accepted that the process of travelling abroad for an abortion was psychologically and physically arduous, especially for women in impoverished circumstances, and also accepted that it might be the case that the prohibition on abortion was to a large extent ineffective in protecting the unborn, in the sense that a substantial number of women took the option of travelling abroad for an abortion, nevertheless the first and second applicants complaints under article 8 were rejected.
Having regard to the right to lawfully travel abroad for an abortion with access to appropriate information and medical care in Ireland, the court did not consider that the prohibition in Ireland of abortion for health and well being reasons, based as it was on the profound moral views of the Irish people as to the nature of life and as to the consequent protection to be accorded to the right to life of the unborn, exceeded the margin of appreciation accorded to the Irish state.
The prohibition consequently struck a fair balance between the womens right to respect for their private lives and the rights invoked on behalf of the unborn.
The third applicants complaint under article 8, which succeeded, concerned a different issue (the absence of a procedure by which she could have established whether she qualified for a lawful abortion in Ireland on grounds of the risk to her life of her pregnancy), and is of no relevance to the present case.
The present case
In the light of the European courts relatively recent judgment in A, B and C, it appears to me to be impossible to hold that the legislation in force in Northern Ireland is incompatible with article 3.
In that regard, I again agree with the reasoning of Lord Mance.
As he states, even when one takes into account that the present case focuses on pregnancies where the foetus is abnormal or has been conceived as the result of a sexual offence, it is apparent that the great majority of