 been concerned, as well as the current lack of certainty about what moral views are presently held by the population of Northern Ireland, I do not feel that it would be appropriate at this stage to express a positive conclusion that the legislation itself is incompatible with article 8.
In so saying, I also have in mind that, as Lord Mance says at para 92 of his judgment, other factors can play a part, in addition to the legislation itself, in producing adverse treatment of which complaint may be made.
He points out that where one is able to examine the specific circumstances that have arisen, the cause of the impugned treatment may, in some cases, prove to have been not the applicable legislation itself, but rather the way that it was (mis)understood or (mal)administered.
That is one of the reasons why an abstract challenge to legislation presents such a difficulty.
In such circumstances, alleviating the hardship of women in the categories of case that we have been asked to consider, may involve a combination of amending the law and taking practical steps to ensure that proper information and support is available to the women concerned, countering what Lord Kerr has described (para 176) as the significant chilling effect on women who wish to obtain an abortion and doctors who might assist them.
Given the diverse circumstances covered by the categories upon which we have been asked to focus (as to which, see for example Lord Mances discussion of the position in relation to sexual crimes, commencing at para 127 of his judgment), the solutions require democratic debate.
However, Lord Reed has made observations about the worrying situation disclosed in the accounts placed before us, and about the need for the review that had been begun in Northern Ireland to be resumed and completed.
I share his view about the importance of this and about the fact that there is every reason to fear that violations of the Convention rights of women in Northern Ireland will occur if arrangements there remain as they are.
Article 8: Fatal foetal abnormality
In relation to foetuses with fatal abnormalities, I would go further than Lord Reed does.
I do not consider the present law in Northern Ireland to be compatible with article 8 of the ECHR in relation to this category of case.
Where the unborn child cannot survive, in contrast to the other categories of pregnancy with which we are concerned, there is no life outside the womb to protect.
In those circumstances, even if allowance is made for the intrinsic value of the life of the foetus, the moral and ethical views of society cannot, it seems to me, be sufficient to outweigh the intrusion upon the autonomy of the pregnant woman, and her suffering, if she is obliged to carry to term a pregnancy which she does not wish to continue.
Furthermore, as Lady Hale points out, and as can be seen from the experiences of some of those whose circumstances were placed before the court, a problem such as this is often diagnosed comparatively late in the pregnancy.
This is likely to make the process of termination more demanding for the woman than it would be at an earlier stage in the pregnancy, and to compound the problems that exist for any woman who has to travel abroad for the procedure, including by significantly restricting the time available for making arrangements to have the termination carried out in Great Britain so as to avoid it having to be carried out at an advanced stage of the pregnancy.
