 the Executive Committee of the Northern Ireland Assembly).
The second respondent, the Attorney General, was not sued as representing the Northern Ireland Government and it may be could not have been (see section 17(3) of the Crown Proceedings Act 1947).
But even assuming that a claim could have been made against him on that basis, the Commission would still be subject to the restriction under section 71(2B) that it could only institute the present proceedings if there is or would be one or more victims of the unlawful act.
That restriction is not satisfied by a general assertion that the failure to abrogate or amend section 25 is likely to give rise to victims.
Section 71(2B) contemplates the specific existence and identification of a victim who can say that he or she is or would be the victim of an unlawful act, in a way which satisfies section 7(1) of the HRA.
Finally, however, I repeat the point made in para 45 above, that, even if the Commission could satisfy the restrictions of section 71(2B) and establish that the maintenance in force of section 25 constituted an unlawful act, the practical effect would appear to be either nothing or very little, having regard to the continuing effect of sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act.
In summary, the present proceedings were not instituted by identifying any unlawful act or any actual or potential victim of it.
First and fundamentally, as regards sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act, this is because they were brought to challenge the compatibility with the Convention rights of United Kingdom primary legislation, which by statutory definition is not a complaint about any act which is unlawful under the HRA or indeed otherwise.
Secondly, although this would not have resolved the first objection if they had been, the proceedings were not, in fact, brought by reference to any particular alleged victim of any such incompatibility, and this remains the case although evidence has subsequently been adduced about a number of specific cases.
In these circumstances, I would uphold the respondents objection to the Commissions pursuit of these proceedings, and answer the questions raised by the Attorney General of Northern Irelands reference in the negative.
The alleged incompatibility
The case advanced by the Commission, with the support of a number of the interveners (other interveners joining the respondents in opposition to it), involves different categories which can be identified as follows: (a) Cases of fatal foetal abnormality, (b) Cases of serious foetal abnormality, (c) Cases of pregnancy due to rape, (d) Cases of pregnancy due to incest.
Clearly, there is room for argument at the margin about the precise definition and scope of these categories.
There is however medical evidence to the effect that circumstances falling within category (a) can be reasonably clearly identified, whether they involve the inevitable or likely death of the foetus in the womb or within a fairly short period after birth.
Cases within category (b) are on that basis cases where the foetus will live for a reasonable period after birth, but suffer from permanent abnormalities.
As to category (c), the Commission initiated these proceedings with the narrow focus indicated in para 42 above.
The circumstances of the JR76 interveners (see para 89 below), relating to a child of 13 or over but under 16, were not in the Commissions mind.
Sexual activity with such a child is capable of constituting one of a number of sexual offences, not described as rape, set out in sections 16 to 22 of the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008, (2008) No 1769 (NI 2), depending inter alia on the age of the person committing the offence.
As the evidence