 trauma of a fatal foetal abnormality pregnancy or a pregnancy which is the consequence of rape or incest and who would be prepared, after the event, to assert a violation of their rights cannot be presumed to be significant.
If NIHRC is unable, by reason of a lack of standing, to bring proceedings to protect such womens rights, I consider that they will be deprived of the practical and effective remedy which article 13 guarantees.
I consider, therefore, that NIHRC has standing to bring the present proceedings.
The decision of the majority that the appellant does not have standing appears to me, with respect, to depart from a well established line of authority that an interpretation of a statute which gives effect to the ascertainable will of Parliament should be preferred to a literal construction which will frustrate the legislations true purpose.
In R (Quintavalle) v Secretary of State for Health [2003] 2 AC 687, Lord Bingham said at para 8: The basic task of the court is to ascertain and give effect to the true meaning of what Parliament has said in the enactment to be construed.
But that is not to say that attention should be confined and a literal interpretation given to the particular provisions which give rise to difficulty.
Such an approach not only encourages immense prolixity in drafting It may also (under the banner of loyalty to the will of Parliament) lead to the frustration of that will, because undue concentration on the minutiae of the enactment may lead the court to neglect the purpose which Parliament intended to achieve when it enacted the statute.
Every statute other than a pure consolidating statute is, after all, enacted to make some change, or address some problem, or remove some blemish, or effect some improvement in the national life.
The courts task, within the permissible bounds of interpretation, is to give effect to Parliaments purpose.
So the controversial provisions should be read in the context of the statute as a whole, and the statute as a whole should be read in the historical context of the situation which led to its enactment.
A similar approach was taken by Lord Carswell in R v Z (Attorney General for Irelands reference) [2005] 2 AC 645, where, having cited Lord Binghams statements in Quintavalle, he said at para 49: My Lords, this appeal serves as a very good example of the principle of statutory construction that in seeking to ascertain the mischief towards which a statute is directed it can be of prime importance to have regard to the historical context.
If the words of a statutory provision, when construed in a literalist fashion, produce a meaning which is manifestly contrary to the intention which one may readily impute to Parliament, when having regard to the historical context and the mischief, then it is not merely legitimate but desirable that they should be construed in the light of the purpose of the legislature in enacting the provision: cf Karpavicius v The Queen [2003] 1 WLR 169, 175 176, paras 15 16, per Lord Steyn.
In Attorney Generals Reference (No 5 of 2002) [2005] 1 AC 167, Lord Steyn said at para 31: No explanation for resorting to a purposive construction is necessary.
One can confidently assume that Parliament intends its legislation to be interpreted not in the way of a black letter lawyer, but in a meaningful and purposive way giving effect to the basic objectives of the legislation.
A more recent example of the same approach is found in Littlewoods Ltd v Revenue and Customs Comrs [2017] 3 WLR 1401, where Lord Reed and Lord Hodge said: the literal reading fatally compromises the statutory scheme created by Parliament.
It cannot therefore be the construction