 the Convention has the same meaning (5) as in the Human Rights Act 1998. 6.
Legislative competence. (1) A provision of an Act is not law if it is outside the legislative competence of the Assembly. (2) A provision is outside that competence if any of the following paragraphs apply
Sections 6(2)(c) and 24(1)(a), to which reference is made at the start of section 71 address the legislative competence of, respectively, the Northern Ireland Assembly and of Northern Irish Ministers and departments, as follows: (a) it would form part of the law of a country or territory other than Northern Ireland, or confer or remove functions exercisable otherwise than in or as regards Northern Ireland; (b) it deals with an excepted matter and is not ancillary to other provisions (whether in the Act or previously enacted) dealing with reserved or transferred matters; (c) rights; it is incompatible with EU law; (d) (e) it discriminates against any person or class of person on the ground of religious belief or political opinion; (f) it is incompatible with any of the Convention it modifies an enactment in breach of section 7. (3) For the purposes of this Act, a provision is ancillary to other provisions if it is a provision (a) which provides for the enforcement of those other provisions or is otherwise necessary or expedient for making those other provisions effective; or (b) which is otherwise incidental to, or consequential on, those provisions; 24.
EU law, Convention rights, etc. (1) A Minister or Northern Ireland department has no power to make, confirm or approve any subordinate legislation, or to do any act, so far as the legislation or act is incompatible with EU law; is incompatible with any of the Convention (a) rights; (b) (c) discriminates against a person or class of person on the ground of religious belief or political opinion; (d) in the case of an act, aids or incites another person to discriminate against a person or class of person on that ground; or (e) in breach of section 7. in the case of legislation, modifies an enactment (2) Subsection (1)(c) and (d) does not apply in relation to any act which is unlawful by virtue of the Fair Employment and Treatment (Northern Ireland) Order 1998, or would be unlawful but for some exception made by virtue of Part VIII of that Order.
Sections 6, 7 and 8 of the HRA provide as follows: It is unlawful for a public authority to act in a way which 6.
Acts of public authorities. (1) is incompatible with a Convention right. (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to an act if (a) as the result of one or more provisions of primary legislation, the authority could not have acted differently; or (b) in the case of one or more provisions of, or made under, primary legislation which cannot be read or given effect in a way which is compatible with the Convention (3) rights, the authority was acting so as to give effect to or enforce those provisions.
In this section public authority includes (a) (b) functions of a public nature; a court or tribunal, and any person certain of whose functions are but does not include either House of Parliament or a person exercising functions in connection with proceedings in Parliament. (4) (5) In relation to a particular act, a person is not a public authority by virtue only of subsection (3)(b) if the nature of the act is private. (6) failure to (a) for legislation; or (b) make any primary legislation or remedial order.
An