 regarding the JR76 interveners illustrates (para 89 below), a pregnancy in a case involving such an offence can well involve most distressing circumstances.
However, since the question is whether current Northern legislation is bound to operate incompatibly with the Convention rights in a legally significant number of cases, it is unnecessary for us on this appeal to attempt to address every conceivable case.
Bearing in mind the narrow focus of both the Commissions case as initiated and of the submissions which we heard in this area, I will focus on rape in the legal sense, and leave other cases to be considered separately, though in the light of course of any relevant assistance which this judgment may afford.
Sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act provide as follows: 58.
Administering drugs or using instruments to procure abortion.
Every woman, being with child, who, with intent to procure her own miscarriage, shall unlawfully administer to herself any poison or other noxious thing, or shall unlawfully use any instrument or other means whatsoever with the like intent, and whosoever, with intent to procure the miscarriage of any woman, whether she be or be not with child, shall unlawfully administer to her or cause to be taken by her any poison or other noxious thing, or shall unlawfully use any instrument or other means whatsoever with the like intent, shall be guilty of felony, and being convicted thereof shall be liable to be kept in penal servitude for life . 59.
Procuring drugs, &c to cause abortion.
Whosoever shall unlawfully supply or procure any poison or other noxious thing, or any instrument or thing whatsoever, knowing that the same is intended to be unlawfully used or employed with intent to procure the miscarriage of any woman, whether she be or be not with child, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and being convicted thereof shall be liable to be kept in penal servitude.
Section 25 of the 1945 Act provides: 25.
Punishment for child destruction. (1) Subject as hereafter in this sub section provided, any person who, with intent to destroy the life of a child then capable of being born alive, by any wilful act causes a child to die before it has an existence independent of its mother, shall be guilty of felony, to wit, of child destruction, and shall be liable on conviction thereof on indictment to penal servitude for life: Provided that no person shall be found guilty of an offence under this section unless it is proved that the act which caused the death of the child was not done in good faith for the purpose only of preserving the life of the mother. (2) For the purposes of this and the next succeeding section, evidence that a woman had at any material time been pregnant for a period of 28 weeks or more shall be prima facie proof that she was at that time pregnant of a child then capable of being born alive.
The word unlawfulness used in sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act was explained by Macnaghten J in directions given to the jury in the seminal case of R v Bourne [1939] 1 KB 687; [1938] 3 All ER 615.
In order to understand its scope, he pointed to different wording used to define an associated offence in both the Infant Life (Preservation) Act 1929 in England and section 25 of the 1945 Act.
Under both provisions, it is necessary to prove that the act which caused the death of the child was not done in good faith for the purpose only of preserving the life of the mother.
Macnaghten J held that the same requirement was implied by the word unlawful in section 58 (and, it follows,