 of the 1945 Act.
Following the grant of leave to apply for judicial review, a number of organisations sought to intervene in the proceedings.
They were given permission to intervene and have been represented in the proceedings before this court, although the number of interveners has increased from those who participated in the hearing before the High Court and the Court of Appeal.
On 17 February 2015, the High Court issued a Notice of Incompatibility under section 4 of HRA and Order 121 of the Rules of the Court of Judicature (the rules), notifying the Attorney General and the Department of Justice that they might enter an appearance to the proceedings.
The court also issued a devolution notice under paragraph 5 of Schedule 10 to the Northern Ireland Act 1998 (NIA) and Order 120 of the Rules.
The case was heard at first instance by Horner J on 15 17 June 2015.
NIHRC argued that where there was a serious malformation of the foetus or where the pregnancy was the result of rape or incest, the prohibition on abortion in Northern Ireland breached the rights of women and girls under article 3, article 8 and article 14 (read together with article 8) of ECHR.
The Attorney General and the Department of Justice disputed these claims, arguing that there was no violation of ECHR and that, in any event, the Commission did not have standing to bring proceedings for judicial review.
Horner J held that the application for judicial review should succeed in part.
He held that the Commission had standing to apply for the relief that it sought.
He also found that sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act and section 25 of the 1945 Act were incompatible with article 8 in cases of fatal foetal abnormality, rape and incest, but not in cases of serious malformation of the foetus para 184 of his judgment.
He dismissed that part of the application that depended on article 3.
The Attorney General and the Department of Justice appealed Horner Js judgment.
They argued that a declaration of incompatibility could not be granted in the absence of an identified unlawful act and that the Commissions failure to identify someone who was or would be a victim of the asserted breaches of the Convention was fatal to the success of the application for judicial review because it did not allow for an examination of the particular facts said to constitute the breach.
NIHRC did not have standing, therefore, it was submitted.
They challenged the judges findings in relation to article 8 and they claimed that he had erred in holding that the life of an unborn foetus was not protected by the common law of Northern Ireland.
NIHRC cross appealed, arguing that the relevant statutory provisions were incompatible with article 3 of ECHR and article 14 (read with article 8).
It also argued that appropriate declarations should have been made in the case of serious as well as fatal foetal abnormality.
All three members of the Court of Appeal agreed that the Commission had standing to bring the judicial review challenge para 46 of Morgan LCJs judgment.
The Lord Chief Justice held that it was within the margin of appreciation of the contracting states of the Council of Europe to determine the nature of the protection to be afforded a foetus paras 50 52 of his judgment.
Gillen LJ agreed with this conclusion.
Weatherup LJ held that, although the foetus was not entitled to protection under article 2 of ECHR, it was possible that some recognition of a foetuss rights might arise under article 8 paras 126 131.
Gillen and Weatherup LJJ agreed with the Lord Chief Justices conclusions that article 3 was not engaged paras 52 60 of his judgment.
In relation to article