 is room for reasonable minds to differ as to the policy which should be adopted.
The role of the court is to determine whether the restrictions imposed in a particular case are justifiable on one of the permissible grounds, generally by applying a test of proportionality.
The European Court of Human Rights can thus recognise the legitimacy of decision making at the national level, when applying a qualified provision such as article 8, and acknowledge that a judgement as to the restrictions which can appropriately be imposed in a given society is in principle best made by the authorities of that country.
National courts can equally respect the judgements made by the democratic institutions of their society, applying the principle of proportionality in a manner which reflects the constitutional principle of the separation of powers.
It follows that the extent, in practice, to which elements of social and ethical policy are taken out of the hands of national democratic processes and determined by judges depends on how stringently absolute provisions of the Convention, such as article 3, are applied by both the European and national courts, and on how much respect they pay to the judgement of national democratic institutions when applying a proportionality analysis to restrictions of qualified rights such as that recognised in article 8.
At the European level, increasing emphasis has been placed on the critical role of national legislatures in defining human rights protection within the scope of the qualified rights.
Increasing attention has therefore been paid to the question whether a legislative measure has been based on considered debate, including consideration of the impact of the measure on the Convention right in question, and of the necessity of the interference: see, for example, Donald and Leach, Parliaments and the European Court of Human Rights (2016), and Spano, The European Court of Human Rights: Subsidiarity, Process Based Review and Rule of Law (2018) HRLR 1.
Parliamentary processes are regarded as especially important where the question involves the assessment of moral or ethical issues falling squarely within the scope of democratic debate, or where the legislative policy adopted reflects a historical tradition of giving legal effect to a particular conception of social or moral life.
At national level, it is equally important that the courts should respect the importance of political accountability for decisions on controversial questions of social and ethical policy.
The Human Rights Act and the devolution statutes have altered the powers of the courts, but they have not altered the inherent limitations of court proceedings as a means of determining issues of social and ethical policy.
Nor have they diminished the inappropriateness, and the dangers for the courts themselves, of highly contentious issues in social and ethical policy being determined by judges, who have neither any special insight into such questions nor any political accountability for their decisions.
Abortion law and Convention rights
In interpreting the Convention in cases concerned with abortion, the European Court of Human Rights has demonstrated its awareness of the sensitivity of this topic and the extent to which it is better suited to determination by national authorities.
It has never interpreted the Convention as requiring contracting states to introduce laws permitting abortion, either generally or in relation to particular categories of pregnancy.
In its most recent consideration of the issue, in the case of A, B and C v Ireland (2010) 53 EHRR 13, the Grand Chamber rejected complaints by two Irish women that the prohibition on abortion in Ireland (a more restrictive prohibition than in Northern Ireland), by effectively compelling them to travel elsewhere if they wished to terminate their pregnancy, with similar consequences to those described in the present case, had violated their rights under articles 3 and 8 (the third applicant raised somewhat different issues relating to her specific situation).
The court accepted that travelling abroad for an abortion was both psychologically and physically arduous for each of the applicants, and that it was also financially burdensome.
Nevertheless, it pointed out that ill treatment must attain a