 reason: Whelan at para 7.7.
While it also true that article 3 of the Human Rights Convention is in terms unqualified, the contextual application which the European Court of Human Rights adopts (para 94 above) militates against too absolutist an approach.
It is not clear that the UNHRC takes the same approach.
Even so, both UNHRC decisions adopt the same approach as the European Court of Human Rights, in that they focus intensely on the particular facts.
Although the UNHRC decisions do so in the context of fatal foetal abnormality, which is now in issue before the Supreme Court, they are not authorities as to the position under the Human Rights Convention and, even if they were, they could not stand for a general proposition that the Northern Ireland legislation with which the present appeal is concerned must itself be condemned as generally incompatible with article 3.
For these reasons, therefore, I would reject the Commissions general case that the 1861 and 1945 Acts are of themselves incompatible with article 3 of the Human Rights Convention.
That does not mean that the Northern Ireland authorities treatment of a pregnant woman, with a foetus with a fatal abnormality or the result of rape or incest (or, indeed, in other cases) may not on particular facts achieve that level of severity that justifies a conclusion of breach of article 3.
It means only that the legislation by itself cannot axiomatically be regarded as involving such a breach.
Article 8
It is common ground that the prohibition of abortion in the circumstances in issue on this appeal constitutes an interference coming within the scope of, or engaging, article 8 in the case of persons affected by that prohibition: see also A, B and C v Ireland, para 214.
But article 8 is, in contrast to article 3, qualified by reference to the interests identified in its para 2 and set out in para 80 above.
In A, B and C v Ireland the questions arising were addressed under three heads: (i) Was the interference in accordance with the law? (ii) Did it pursue a legitimate aim? (iii) Was it necessary in a democratic society? In domestic authority a more detailed, overlapping schema is commonly identified: (i) Was the aim or objective of the interference sufficiently important to justify the limitation of a fundamental right? (ii) Was the interference rationally connected to such aim or objective? (iii) Could a less intrusive measure have been used? (iv) Having regard to these matters and to the severity of the interference, was a fair balance struck between the rights of the individual and of the community? See Bank Mellat v Her Majestys Treasury (No 2) [2014] AC 700, per Lord Sumption at para 20 and, in slightly greater detail, Lord Reed at para 74.
Taking head (i), in the present context, the interference was prescribed by law the 1861 and 1945 Acts.
I have already noted that this appeal is not about whether those Acts define sufficiently clearly the circumstances in which abortion is permitted.
It is clear at least since the FPANI case that they exclude, as such and without more, abortion in the circumstances of foetal abnormality and of pregnancy due to rape or incest, with which this appeal is concerned.
The next step, taking head (ii), is to identify and consider the legitimacy of the aim or objective of the legislative prohibition.
In terms of article 8(2), the potentially relevant interests are the protection of health or morals, and, perhaps, if a foetus is treated as or equated with an other, the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
It is clear that there exists in Northern Ireland a considerable body of religious or moral