 for an abortion.
Even when one takes into account that the present case concerns pregnancies where the foetus is diagnosed as fatally or seriously abnormal or is the result of rape or incest, it remains the case that the pregnant woman may, and it seems likely in most cases can if she chooses, travel elsewhere from Northern Ireland for an abortion.
It is clear that this can be a distressing and expensive experience, even taking into account that it has now been accepted that the NHS should bear the costs of such an abortion in England.
Nevertheless, this is the result of current Northern Irish legislative policy, which itself no doubt originates in moral beliefs about the need to value and protect an unborn foetus.
In these circumstances, I do not see that current Northern Ireland law can be regarded as giving rise either generally or necessarily in any case to distress of such severity as to infringe article 3, any more than the European Court of Human Rights considered it to be in A, B and C v Ireland.
Instead, the focus should be on individual cases, in a way which the Commissions actio popularis does not permit.
The appellant submits that it is wrong to look solely in this connection to article 3 of the Human Rights Convention.
International legal material under other instruments, to which the European Court of Human Rights would itself have regard, can and in their submission should inform the view taken of article 3: see eg Opuz v Turkey (2009) 50 EHRR 28, para 185.
In the present context, the Commission invites attention to decisions of the United Nations Human Rights Committee (UNHRC) in relation to article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the first sentence of which is, with the addition of the further alternative cruel before inhuman or degrading, in identical terms to the first sentence of article 3 of the Human Rights Convention.
In Mellet v Ireland (9 June 2016) and Whelan v Ireland (17 March 2017), substantially overlapping groups of distinguished international lawyers have recently considered specific complaints by two Irish women about the circumstances in which they were denied abortions in respect of fatally abnormal foetuses in Ireland, and were compelled to travel abroad to obtain them.
In each case, the UNHRC concluded that the prohibition on abortion in Ireland, the shame and stigma associated with the criminalisation of abortion of a fatally ill foetus, the compulsion in such a case to travel abroad from the familiar home environment to have an abortion, the lack of information and assistance in Ireland, before and after such abortion, the fact of having to leave the babys remains behind and then in Whelan having them unexpectedly delivered by courier, were all factors combining to lead to a conclusion that article 7 was breached.
In each case, the UNHRC also concluded that there was arbitrary or unlawful interference with the complainants privacy contrary to article 17 of the Covenant.
Mellet and Whelan represent the conclusions of distinguished lawyers under a different international treaty to the Human Rights Convention.
In both cases, the UNHRC received and recorded submissions from the Irish government on A, B and C v Ireland.
The UNHRC did not, however, specifically address the requirement under the case law of the European Court of Human Rights for treatment to have a significant severity before it falls to be treated under article 3, compared for example with article 8 of the Convention, or consider the (perhaps more restrictively worded) equivalent of article 8 to be found in article 7 of the Covenant.
Further, in both decisions, the UNHRC was at pains to note that, according to General Comment No 20 on the Covenant, its text was not limited, and no justification or extenuating circumstances may be invoked to excuse a violation for any