 necessary correlation between the votes cast in the Assembly on such issues and the moral views of the people of Northern Ireland.
This aspect will be discussed in detail in the sections of this judgment dealing with article 8 and institutional competence and I say nothing more about it here.
On the question of the reasons that MLAs voted as they did, the Hansard report of the debate in the Assembly is illuminating.
Mrs Pengelly spoke on behalf of the Democratic Unionist party (DUP).
She urged MLAs to vote against the amendment in relation to fatal foetal abnormality.
She did so, however, on the basis that further investigation and consultation were required.
She did not suggest that the DUP (then the largest party in the Assembly) was unalterably opposed to amendment of the abortion law.
To the contrary, although she said that the DUP was opposed to the extension of the 1967 Abortion Act to Northern Ireland, in the following passages she made clear that the DUP had not shut its mind to possible reform: The issue before us requires it demands careful consideration from the medical professionals, practitioners, families and ethics and legal experts to ensure that sufficient and proper clarity and guidance are the hallmarks of the way forward.
That is absolutely essential to ensure that the arrangements are fully grounded in compassion, good law, support and the protection of our integrity and to ensure that our societal values and rights are properly and carefully balanced and maintained Tread carefully.
That is why the DUP is rejecting the amendment but outlining a road map to a sensible, informed and appropriate way forward.
The Minister of Health has been asked to establish, by the end of February, a working group that will include clinicians in this field and legally qualified persons to make recommendations on how this issue can be addressed, including, if necessary, bringing forward draft legislation.
We have asked that all interested parties should be consulted and that the group will be tasked to report within six months.
We all need to hear more fully the views of the Royal College and others.
We all need the opportunity to ask those vital questions to get the appropriate advice.
That is why the working group is the best and most appropriate way forward I urge members to vote against the amendment and for the proposed way forward that we are outlining a sensible way that is based on expertise, evidence and careful, thoughtful consideration.
Support a way forward that is based on love, compassion and hope.
Mrs Dolores Kelly, speaking on behalf of the Social Democratic and Labour Party declared that her party was a pro life party.
But the opposition of her party to the amendment was not based solely on that position.
She considered that greater clarity was required about the guidelines issued by the Department of Health as to when termination could legally take place.
She welcomed the decision of the First Minister to set up a working group to consider the question of abortion law in Northern Ireland.
Again, it is clear that this party did not have an implacable opposition to amendment of the law.
At the time of the vote on the amendment, the make up of the Assembly was DUP 38; Sinn Fin 29; Ulster Unionist Party 16; Social Democratic and Labour Party 14; Alliance Party of Northern Ireland 8; Traditional Unionist Voice 1; Green Party 1; Independent 1.
It is clear from the voting record that the bulk of the opposition came from DUP but members of other parties, notably, the Social Democratic and Labour party, also joined the no lobby while members of the Ulster Unionist party and the Alliance party supported the amendment.
It is inescapably clear, therefore, that there was no single, cohesive view among those who voted against the amendment as to the reasons for doing so.
The motivation for preserving the law in its current state cannot begin to qualify as a basis for treating