23 EHRR 413 and Saadi v Italy [2008] 49 EHRR 30, where the European Court of Human Rights identified as the relevant test of the legitimacy of a deportation, whether there would be a real risk of torture or inhuman or degrading treatment in the country to which deportation was proposed.
In my view, these points demonstrate the problem about treating the Commission as having a generalised competence to challenge legislation, and illustrate a likely reason why the NI Act 1998 was framed so as not to confer such a competence.
When a challenge is made by a victim, the court focuses on the treatment which the victim has actually received or is actually receiving, and its cause may well prove not to have been the applicable legislation, but rather the way this was (mis)understood or (mal)administered.
In contrast, where, as here, the claim is that the legislation itself presents a risk of treatment incompatible with the Convention, the focus is in one sense narrowed, in so far as it is now solely on the legislation and its effect, but in another sense broadened, in so far as it is submitted that compatibility must be judged not by reference to actual facts, but by reference to risk.
That said, others among my colleagues consider that the Commission is competent to bring the present proceedings.
In the circumstances I shall go on to express my own views on the generalised challenges which are made.
The starting point is that an unborn foetus is not treated in domestic law as being already a person.
In the context of abortion, a conclusion that a foetus is not a person appears to follow naturally from the interpretation of the 1861 and 1945 Acts, according to which the preservation both of the mothers life and of her long term mental health from serious damage prevail, without more, over any interests of the unborn foetus.
The English law position was considered more generally in In re MB (Medical Treatment) [1997] EWCA Civ 3093; [1997] 2 FLR 426, 444.
The issue there was whether the court had power to compel a woman of competent decision making power to have a caesarean in order to save her unborn child.
The Court of Appeal rejected the existence of such a power, saying forcibly: The law is, in our judgment, clear that a competent woman who has the capacity to decide may, for religious reasons, other reasons, or for no reasons at all, choose not to have medical intervention, even though, as we have already stated, the consequence may be the death or serious handicap of the child she bears or her own death.
She may refuse to consent to the anaesthesia injection in the full knowledge that her decision may significantly reduce the chance of her unborn child being born alive.
The foetus up to the moment of birth does not have any separate interests capable of being taken into account when a court has to consider an application for a declaration in respect of a caesarian section operation.
The court does not have the jurisdiction to declare that such medical intervention is lawful to protect the interests of the unborn child even at the point of birth. (italics added)
In Attorney Generals Reference (No 3 of 1994) [1998] AC 245, the House concluded, as the headnote puts it, that a foetus is neither a distinct person separate from its mother, nor merely an adjunct of the mother, but was a unique organism to which existing principles could not necessarily be applied.
This introduces a note of caution about any absolutist attempt of definition, and the italicised sentence in the quotation from In re MB (Medical Treatment) above may in that respect be too dogmatic.
The European Court of Human Rights has also taken a somewhat more nuanced