 the importance of human rights, (b) rights, (c) promote awareness, understanding and protection of human rights, and (d) encourage public authorities to comply with section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (c 42) (compliance with Convention rights).
Judicial review and other legal proceedings 30. (1) The Commission shall have capacity to institute or intervene in legal proceedings, whether for judicial review or otherwise, if it appears to the Commission that the proceedings are relevant to a matter in connection with which the Commission has a function. (2) The Commission shall be taken to have title and interest in relation to the subject matter of any legal proceedings in Scotland which it has capacity to institute, or in which it has capacity to intervene, by virtue of subsection (1). (3) The Commission may, in the course of legal proceedings for judicial review which it institutes (or in which it intervenes), rely on section 7(1)(b) of the Human Rights Act 1998 (c 42) (breach of Convention rights); and for that purpose the Commission may act only if there is or would the Commission need not be a victim or potential (a) victim of the unlawful act to which the proceedings relate, (b) be one or more victims of the unlawful act, (c) and (d) no award of damages may be made to the Commission (whether or not the exception in section 8(3) of that Act applies); section 7(3) and (4) of that Act shall not apply, and an expression used in this subsection and in section 7 of the Human Rights Act 1998 has the same meaning in this subsection as in that section. (4) Subsections (1) and (2) (a) do not create a cause of action, and (b) are, except as provided by subsection (3), subject to any limitation or restriction imposed by virtue of an enactment (including an enactment in or under an Act of the Scottish Parliament) or in accordance with the practice of a court.
These provisions are different from those in the NI Act 1998, in both its original form and the form in which it was amended in 2007.
It is open to argument under section 30(1) of the 2006 Act that the EHRC is given general capacity to initiate proceedings relevant to any matter in connection with which the Commission has a function, and that section 30(3) is merely regulating one particular kind of such proceedings.
I need express no view on the correctness of this argument.
Even if it were correct, the mere perception that it might be welcome and entirely sensible, as the EHRC put it, if both the Northern Ireland Commission and the EHRC had the same powers cannot help construe different statutory schemes enacted at different times in different terms and without reference to each other.
For these reasons, I conclude that sections 69 and 71 are incapable of conferring on the Commission power to institute or intervene in proceedings in so far as the complaint relates to the suggested incompatibility of primary legislation of the United Kingdom Parliament, namely the 1861 Act, with one or more of the Convention rights scheduled to the HRA.
This conclusion is in my opinion reinforced by consideration of the legislative history of the NI Act 1998.
As originally enacted, section 71 contained only subsections (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5).
Subsections (2A), (2B) and (2C) were only added in 2007 by the Justice and Security (Northern Ireland) Act 2007, and so in the light of In re Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission, decided in 2002.
Importantly