 arguments relied on by those who would hold the law in Northern Ireland to be incompatible with article 8 are the same as those rejected by the European court in A, B and C.
Of course, to the extent that the law places restrictions on the availability of abortion, it treats the moral value of protecting the life of the unborn as outweighing the womans personal autonomy and freedom to control her own life.
That is true of any restriction on abortion.
Of course, the law applies even to those who do not share the ethical perspective which underpins it.
That is the nature of law: it applies to everyone, whether they agree with it or not.
It may be that the law is largely ineffective to protect the unborn, because the great majority of women who wish to have abortions do so anyway, travelling to England for that purpose.
Nevertheless, a society cannot be bound under the Convention to permit behaviour which it considers morally repugnant, merely because a prohibition can be obviated.
On the contrary, the fact that a prohibition imposed for moral reasons can be obviated may tend to support its proportionality, since it imposes less of a restriction in reality on those who do not share the moral values which underpin it.
As in relation to article 3, the court has been provided with accounts of individual cases which, if they were established in individual applications, would almost certainly demonstrate violations of article 8, due principally, it would appear, to shortcomings in the provision of advice and support by health care professionals.
But the possibility that there might be violations of article 8 in some individual cases does not warrant a bald declaration that the legislation, as such, is incompatible with article 8.
The principal difference between this case and A, B and C is that it raises the question whether it is proportionate to treat the moral value of protecting the life of the unborn as outweighing the womans personal autonomy in situations where the foetus is abnormal or was conceived as the result of a sexual offence: an issue which arises in a particularly acute form in cases where the foetus suffers from a fatal abnormality.
There is no doubt that such situations can result in emotional anguish for the women involved, and that there can be circumstances in which, if the woman is unable to obtain a termination of the pregnancy, its continuation may pose a serious risk to her health and well being.
Nevertheless, the difficulty in the form of the present appeal is that it does not invite the court to investigate the facts of individual cases where Northern Irish women undergoing particular categories of pregnancy have been unable to obtain an abortion, and to decide whether they justify the conclusion that the legislation itself is incompatible with article 8.
Instead, the court is invited, as an abstract exercise, to define categories of pregnancy in respect of which a termination must be legally available if the legislation is to be compatible with article 8.
That approach requires the court to address a number of difficult issues: for example, whether to treat some categories of pregnancy differently from other pregnancies at all; whether, if so, to draw the line at foetuses with fatal abnormalities which will prevent their surviving until birth or for more than a short time after birth, or to include foetuses with serious but non fatal abnormalities; whether to differentiate between healthy foetuses conceived as the result of sexual offences and other healthy foetuses; and whether, if so, to draw the line at foetuses conceived as the result of offences which were non consensual, or to include those conceived as the result of consensual offences.
These are highly sensitive and contentious questions of moral judgement, on which views will vary from person to person, and from judge to judge, as is illustrated by the different views expressed in the present case.
They are pre eminently matters to be settled