 rely upon the European Convention on Human Rights.
This will mean that the Commission can bring test cases without the need for a victim to do so personally.
I reject the arguments that the Commission is obliged to identify a victim and that it must demonstrate that an unlawful act has actually taken place before it may bring proceedings to challenge the compatibility of legislation with ECHR.
HRA contemplates two distinct and complementary mechanisms for the protection of Convention rights challenges to legislation under sections 3 5 of the Act and challenges to the acts of public authorities under sections 6 9 per Lord Rodger in Wilson v First County Trust Ltd (No 2) [2004] 1 AC 816, para 206.
The title to sections 3 5 of the Act is legislation, and to sections 6 9 public authorities.
There is every reason to conclude that the availability of two different species of challenge was in the contemplation of the legislature.
True, of course, it is that a challenge to a decision of a public authority may prompt a declaration of incompatibility in relation to the legislation under which the act of the authority has taken place.
But that circumstance does not preclude the making of a declaration of incompatibility where a freestanding challenge to the legislation is made and its intrinsic nature (as opposed to its impact on a particular individuals rights under ECHR), is deemed to be inconsistent with the Convention.
This, I consider, is clear from the terms of section 4(1) (4) of HRA.
They state: (1) Subsection (2) applies in any proceedings in which a court determines whether a provision of primary legislation is compatible with a Convention right. (2) If the court is satisfied that the provision is incompatible with a Convention right, it may make a declaration of that incompatibility. (3) Subsection (4) applies in any proceedings in which a court determines whether a provision of subordinate legislation, made in the exercise of a power conferred by primary legislation, is compatible with a Convention right. (4) If the court is satisfied that the provision is incompatible with a Convention right, and that (disregarding any possibility of revocation) the primary legislation concerned prevents removal of the incompatibility, it may make a declaration of that incompatibility.
Section 69(5)(b) empowers NIHRC to bring proceedings.
The only restriction on that right is that the proceedings must involve law or practice relating to human rights claims.
A claim under section 4 of the HRA meets that requirement.
The respondents objection resolves to the claim that an application for a declaration of incompatibility must be parasitic on or ancillary to a claim that an individuals right has been violated.
But there is nothing in the text of section 4 which warrants that view.
There is no reason why the court should not entertain proceedings in which NIHRC claims that the 1861 and 1945 Acts contain provisions which are generally incompatible with ECHR.
Proceedings for a declaration of incompatibility are still proceedings.
Nothing in section 4 of HRA suggests that an application for such a declaration must be an adjunct to some other claim.
Cases which challenge primary legislation without claiming that a public authority has acted unlawfully do not engage section 6.
They are actions under sections 3 or 4, and the victim requirement in section 7 need not be satisfied.
In R (Rusbridger) v Attorney General [2004] 1 AC 357, journalists sought to challenge section 3 of the Treason Felony Act 1848 which, at least arguably, criminalised the publication of articles advocating abolition of the monarchy.
An article to that effect was published in the Guardian newspaper and both before and after its publication, the claim