 (para 156).
The applicant was in a situation of great vulnerability and deeply distressed by the information that the foetus could be malformed (para 159).
The services not provided to her had been available, and she had been shabbily treated and, as the Polish Supreme Court had also found, humiliated (para 160).
In P and S v Poland [2012] 129 BMLR 120, P aged 14 became pregnant due to rape, evidenced by bruises.
Polish law permitted an abortion in such circumstances, but the reality of its practical implementation was in striking discordance with the theoretical right.
P was given contradictory information and was subject to religious pressure, medical procrastination, combined with the release by a hospital of information to the national press, exposing P to public comments, unwanted and intrusive text messages from unknown persons and harassment by anti abortion activists.
The Lublin Family Court even removed P from the custody of her mother (S), on the (unfounded) basis that her mother was pressurising her to have an abortion contrary to her wishes, and put her in a juvenile shelter.
Eventually, after S complained to the Ministry of Justice, she was informed that P could have an abortion in Gdansk, 500 kilometres away.
S and P drove there clandestinely and the abortion was carried out on 17 June 2008.
Nonetheless, in July 2008 criminal proceedings were begun against P on suspicion of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under 15.
These proceedings were only dismissed in November 2008 on the basis that P was the victim, not the perpetrator.
In these circumstances, the Court focused on Ps great vulnerability, her young age, the extent to which she had been pressurised and exposed to unwanted public attention, the misguided criminal proceedings commenced against her, and (echoing a phrase from RR v Poland) procrastination, confusion and lack of proper and objective counselling and information throughout; and on that basis found a breach of article 3.
In contrast, in Tysiac v Poland (2007) 45 EHRR 42, the Court rejected the applicants complaint under article 3, while accepting it under article 8.
She had complained about the failure to afford her an abortion in circumstances where she had an understandable fear that giving birth would lead to her losing her already poor sight, leading to a further six months of pregnancy and a caesarean birth, after which her sight did in fact deteriorate significantly (although the causation of this was in issue), causing her immense personal hardship and psychological distress.
The Court held that there was no adequate system in Poland for deciding whether an abortion was lawful and appropriate, for resolving issues arising in this connection and for enabling the applicant to know her position, thereby exposing her to prolonged uncertainty, severe distress and anguish.
Nonetheless, the Court only held there to have been a breach of article 8.
The case made under article 3 was rejected, evidently on the ground that the ill treatment did not reach the requisite level of severity, since the Court referred in this connection to Ilhan v Turkey (2000) 34 EHRR 36, para 87, which proceeded on that basis.
These three cases are all instances of careful consideration of particular facts, to decide whether the relevant threshold of severity has been crossed.
They were decided on an assessment of the actual circumstances of the conduct relied on as contrary to article 3.
They were not decided by reference to an assessment of the risk that the State might commit an actual breach of article 3.
They lend no support to a general conclusion that the current Northern Irish legislative position necessarily involves a breach of article 3 in respect of any pregnant woman faced with a choice between carrying her foetus to term or travelling abroad