 direct impact on a girls or womans experience of pregnancy where, for instance, she has been told that the foetus she is carrying has a fatal abnormality.
In this connection, the evidence of Professor Dornan is highly pertinent.
He is a distinguished obstetrician and gynaecologist whose appointments include Emeritus Professor in Maternal and Foetal Medicine at the Queens University of Belfast and the Professor of Health and Life Sciences at Ulster University.
He is also a member of the external advisory group to Centre for Maternal and Newborn Health (CMNH).
CMNH is a World Health Organisation collaborating Centre for Research and Training on Maternal and Newborn Health whose work includes emergency obstetric care in Africa and Asia.
Professor Dornan has explained that before the decision in the FPANI case, it was the clinical practice in the unit in which he was a consultant to carry out terminations of pregnancy where lethal abnormalities of the foetus were detected on screening and where abnormalities were discovered prior to the stage of viability (at that time 28 weeks, now considered to be 24 weeks) which indicated that there would be a major physical or mental problem for the foetus.
After the judgments of the Court of Appeal were handed down in FPANI, that practice changed radically, as Professor Dornan explained in para 12 of his affidavit: The FPANI case, which was finally decided in 2004, made it clear that we could no longer offer a pregnant woman the option of an abortion on the grounds of fatal foetal abnormality alone.
Rather the focus was to be solely on the pregnant woman.
Therefore, a pregnancy could be lawfully terminated if its continuation threatened her life or would have a serious and long term effect on her physical or mental health.
Hence a diagnosis of fatal foetal abnormality would only be relevant to offering a termination if the continuation with that pregnancy would have such an impact.
Unless, therefore, a doctor could advise with confidence that there would be a serious and long term effect on a mothers physical or mental health, it was legally forbidden to carry out a termination of pregnancy in the case of a fatal abnormality of the foetus.
And this, as Professor Dornans affidavit convincingly shows, despite the high level of accuracy in such diagnoses.
In sum, a doctor treating a pregnant mother is able to tell her with confidence that her baby has a fatal condition but is not be able to offer her a termination of her pregnancy unless a prognosis of serious and long term mental or physical ill health for the mother (an inherently difficult prognosis to make) is possible.
It is small wonder that the doctors in the examples given at the beginning of this judgment felt unable to assist their patients.
Not all mothers who are told that the baby they are carrying has a fatal abnormality will suffer the trauma that was endured by the women whose experiences have been described earlier.
Likewise, not all girls or women who become pregnant as a result of rape or incest will suffer to the same extent.
Some may have uncommon reserves of stoicism and fortitude.
But it is undeniable that some will suffer profound psychological trauma.
That circumstance is sufficient to give rise to a violation of article 3 where proper safeguards to mitigate the risk of such trauma are not put in place.
Obligations owed by the state under article 3 extend to protecting individuals from the risk of a breach of its provisions as well as a positive duty to provide appropriate healthcare treatment where the denial of that treatment would expose victims to ill treatment contrary to article 3.
The positive obligation to protect citizens from ill treatment is stated in A v United Kingdom (1998) 27 EHRR 611: Article 1 taken together with article 3, requires states to take measures designed to ensure that individuals within their jurisdiction are