 and MSNI assessed her as ineligible for an abortion under Northern Ireland law.
Client B was upset and distressed at being informed that she would have to travel to England for an abortion, this being compounded by her fear of her partner and of his reaction if he found out that she was pregnant and planning a termination.
She underwent a termination outside Northern Ireland.
Other examples of the distressing consequences of pregnancy following rape are given by Mara Clarke of Abortion Support Network (ASN).
One is of a woman beaten and raped by a group of men including a close relative.
Northern Ireland organisations and agencies knew of her circumstances, but none offered any assistance.
She managed to raise 100 towards the costs of obtaining an abortion in England, including travel and accommodation, with ASN funding the remaining 1,200.
She later told ASN that, without their help, she would be dead either by her own hand or by that of those who abused her.
The case of two other interveners before the Supreme Court calls for mention.
They are mother and daughter, identified as the JR76 interveners, referring to judicial review proceedings to which they are party in Northern Ireland.
The daughter aged 15, and therefore legally unable to consent to sexual intercourse, became pregnant as a result of a relationship with a boy one year older.
The boy was abusive, and threatened to kick the baby out of her and to stab it if born.
The daughter wanted to continue her schooling and go to university.
Discussing the situation with her supportive mother, the daughter decided that she could not go through with the pregnancy or a termination in England.
She would have had to obtain travel documents and go with her mother.
Instead, she asked her mother to obtain pills to put an end to the pregnancy, neither apparently realising this was unlawful.
Taking the pills led to heavy bleeding, as a result of which the daughter saw her GP, but not to termination of the pregnancy.
The GP referred her to Children and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS), who advised a referral to a local maternity/gynaecologist clinic and also contacted Social Services, who a month later contacted the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI).
The PSNI then, without notice, obtained her medical records from her GP and CAMHS, which led to her being questioned on child protection grounds in her mothers absence, and then to her mother being interviewed under caution and charged by the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.
The pending judicial review proceedings relate to that decision to prosecute.
As an example of pregnancy due to incest, Dawn Purvis identified client C, aged under 13, who presented at MSNI with a relative after becoming pregnant as a result of familial sexual abuse elsewhere within the family.
Client C had, as is common in such cases, concealed the abuse and pregnancy beyond nine weeks and four days.
MSNI only provide medical abortions within that period, and then not to girls under 16.
MSNI initiated its safeguarding procedures and social services and the PSNI became involved.
Client C became frightened and distressed when told that she would have to travel to England, but did so.
Subsequently, the PSNI have asked to retain the products of conception, and have travelled to England to collect them.
These are distressing cases.
But they are not before the Court for resolution, in the way that they could have been if those directly involved in them had brought proceedings as victims.
Had these cases been before the Court, the circumstances of each would have been the subject of individualised investigation and adjudication.
Instead, they are deployed in support of a general challenge to Northern Ireland law as incompatible with the Convention rights.
Further, the Court is invited to address this challenge in terms of risk.
An analogy is suggested with cases such as Chahal v United Kingdom [1996] 