 husband and parents were increased by a departmental briefing to the effect that the courts in Northern Ireland have not ruled on whether it is lawful to encourage or arrange for someone to have a termination and that in the absence of current law on the subject, it remains a grey area and practitioners should be mindful of that fact.
There were protesters outside the Family Planning Association in Belfast, who crowded round and abused them as they left.
The Association had however by then arranged an appointment for an abortion in Streatham, where no one knew about anencephaly.
Her Northern Ireland medical notes could not be transferred to the English clinic, where she felt criticised for having left an abortion so late and the process lacked dignity and was like a conveyor belt.
There was, apparently because of a lack of clarity whether this would be permitted in Northern Ireland, no autopsy on the remains to provide an indication of the likelihood of recurrence of fatal foetal conditions.
The whole experience was devastating and at times almost overwhelming.
The third case is that of Denise Phelan, a qualified lawyer and teacher, who found herself having to carry until one month before her due date in summer 2016 a baby who she knew from an early stage could not live.
Her evidence is that none of her professional training was of any assistance at all in dealing with the reality that in my most desperate time of need the law of Northern Ireland not only could not assist me but actually made things worse.
She continued: The sadness I felt in learning that the foetus I was carrying had a fatal abnormality was completely overtaken by the horror of realising that I had to continue on with the pregnancy in the knowledge that the foetus could die at any moment and then there would be the awful experience of having to deliver it.
After learning that her baby had Edwards Syndrome, Mrs Phelan and her husband were told that they would have to go to England if they decided to terminate the pregnancy, but that doctors in Northern Ireland could not because of the law give any information about that.
She understood that there was a limit of 24 weeks for such a process, and was not informed to the contrary.
When she and her husband asked further about English clinics, they were shocked not just at the cost which was over 1,400, but more so by how the abortion clinics acted like businesses and by the apparent absence of any NHS aftercare.
She had a prior history of mental illness and chronic migraine, which reasserted itself with a vengeance, leaving her incredibly ill with grief, depression, and chronic migraine and vomiting.
She records one psychiatrist saying on the telephone that if a mothers mental health was at risk, the symptoms would simply be treated with medication, while the psychiatrist who she saw assessed her as ineligible for an abortion under Northern Ireland law, saying the bar was set so high that an abortion on those grounds was impossible to obtain.
With her husband she eventually made arrangements to attend an English abortion clinic in her 24th week, but she had chronic migraine and could not travel.
She became even more depressed and ill as a result, and thought of committing suicide.
She knew when her baby died, but it was five days before she was induced to give birth.
During that period the dead baby released meconium which fills the womb and suffers decay, an experience for which no one had prepared her and her husband and which remains seared in her mind.
As one example of a case involving rape, Dawn Purvis of Marie Stopes International Northern Ireland (MSNI) cites client B, who presented at MSNI pregnant after being raped by her partner, with whom she was enduring a domestically violent relationship and who had refused to allow her to use any contraception.
Her GP had refused to refer her to any health care provider on the basis that abortion was illegal in Northern Ireland,