13 or over but under 16, no offence is committed if the penetrator reasonably believed that she was 16 or over.
Consent or reasonable belief in consent does not feature in either offence.
Thus it is conclusively presumed in the law of Northern Ireland that children under 16 are incapable of giving consent to sexual touching, including penetration of the vagina by a penis.
It is difficult, therefore, to see any reason to distinguish between the offences under article 12 and article 16 for the purpose of this discussion, nor indeed to exclude pregnancies which would be the result of an offence under article 16 were it not for the penetrators reasonable belief that the child was 16 or over: she is still deemed incapable of giving a real consent to it.
The claim refers only to rape and incest (as well as foetal abnormality) but there is no longer any offence labelled incest in Northern Ireland law.
There is, however, an offence under article 32 of the 2008 Order labelled Sexual activity with a child family member which follows the same pattern as article 16: it covers sexual touching of a child whom the toucher knows or can reasonably be expected to know is related in the defined ways; if the child is 13 but under 18 the toucher must not believe that she is 18 or over; no such exception applies if the child is under 13; the offence carries a maximum penalty of 14 years imprisonment if the touching involves penetration, inter alia, of the vagina.
Article 68 creates an offence labelled Sex with an adult relative: penetration and article 69 creates an offence of consenting to such penetration.
Thus the criminal law covers (in substance) the same ground as was previously covered by the law of incest.
I see no reason to exclude pregnancies which are the result of the offences created by articles 16, 32 and 68 from this discussion.
Nor do I see any reason to treat child pregnancies resulting from penetration by a relative any differently from child pregnancies arising in other circumstances.
Adult pregnancies are different, because there may have been genuine consent to the penetration.
But the giving of that consent is itself an offence, and so the law should not treat it on the same footing as a real consent.
Furthermore, as Lord Mance has convincingly demonstrated, there is good evidence that most intra familial sexual relationships are abusive.
And once again, by definition we are discussing a woman who does not consent to the pregnancy: she has made a conscious choice that she does not wish to continue with it.
These are all, therefore, situations in which the autonomy rights of the pregnant woman should prevail over the communitys interest in the continuation of the pregnancy.
I agree, for the reasons given by Lord Kerr and Lord Mance, that in denying a lawful termination of her pregnancy in Northern Ireland to those women and girls in these situations who wish for it, the law is incompatible with their Convention rights.
I agree with Lord Mance, in particular, that relying on the possibility that she may be able to summon up the resources, mental and financial, to travel to Great Britain for an abortion if anything makes matters worse rather than better.
This conclusion is reinforced by the recent Report of the CEDAW Committee.
This contains a helpful discussion of the difficulties of travelling out of Northern Ireland for abortion, which it concludes is not a viable solution (paras 25 to 32).
The third type of case with which we are concerned, that of foetal abnormality, does have to be separated into cases where the foetus suffers from a fatal abnormality, one which will cause death either in the womb or very shortly after delivery, and other serious abnormalities.
Both share the feature that the pregnancy may have been very much wanted by the woman, and her partner, and the news