 relation to article 8 and the margin of appreciation but, for present purposes, I focus on what the ECtHR had to say about article 3.
In paras 124 127, the court set out its findings as to the circumstances in which each of the applicants travelled to England to obtain an abortion.
Although the Irish government had not accepted the versions of events given by the applicants and asserted that these were not substantiated, the court considered that the essential facts as related by the women should be regarded as proved.
In particular, at para 126 the court said: The Court considers it reasonable to find that each applicant felt the weight of a considerable stigma prior to, during and after their abortions: they travelled abroad to do something which, on the Governments own submissions, went against the profound moral values of the majority of the Irish people and which was, or (in the case of the third applicant) could have been, a serious criminal offence in their own country punishable by penal servitude for life.
Moreover, obtaining an abortion abroad, rather than in the security of their own country and medical system, undoubtedly constituted a significant source of added anxiety.
The Court considers it evident that travelling abroad for an abortion constituted a significant psychological burden on each applicant.
As regards the physical effects of having to travel abroad to obtain an abortion, the court, at para 127, said: As to the physical impact of travelling for an abortion abroad, it is evident that an abortion would have been physically a less arduous process without the need to travel, notably after the procedure.
However, the Court does not find it established that the present applicants lacked access to necessary medical treatment in Ireland before or after their abortions.
The Court notes the professional requirements on doctors to provide medical treatment to women post abortion.
Finally, the court accepted that in the case of the first applicant, having to travel to England cast a significant financial burden on her and that the second and third applicants were put to considerable expense.
These effects, physical, psychological and financial, did not, in the courts estimation, constitute a breach of article 3.
The reason for that conclusion is pithily expressed in para 164: the Court reiterates its case law to the effect that ill treatment must attain a minimum level of severity if it is to fall within the scope of article 3.
The assessment of this minimum depends on all the circumstances of the case, such as the duration of the treatment, its physical or mental effects and, in some cases, the sex, age and state of health of the victim.
In the above described factual circumstances and whether or not such treatment would be entirely attributable to the state, the Court considers that the facts alleged do not disclose a level of severity falling within the scope of article 3 of the Convention.
Two important points should be made about this passage.
The first is that the court was careful to reiterate the well established formula that the assessment of whether the minimum standard of severity has been met depends on all relevant circumstances.
The second, and related, point is that the courts rejection of the applicants claims under article 3 rested squarely on its evaluation of the particular facts of those cases.
Apart from its restatement of the requirement to examine all material circumstances, the court expressed no general principle that might be considered applicable to cases where the facts were significantly different.
Plainly, cases of serious or fatal abnormality of the foetus or cases where pregnancy is the consequence of sexual assault or incest are markedly different from the A, B and C case.
In my opinion, the judgment in that case does not assist in the decision as to whether there is an article 3 breach in the three categories involved in these proceedings.
In RR v Poland it was discovered at the 18 week scan of the applicant in February 2002