/OP.8/GBR/1, published 23 February 2018, para 18).
This being the state of the law in Northern Ireland, it is not suggested that this Court can strike it down or interpret it out of existence.
The only question is whether it is incompatible with either article 3 or article 8 of the ECHR and whether the Court both can and should declare it so.
The first question, therefore, is whether the NIHRC has standing to bring these proceedings.
Standing
This is an arid question, because there is no doubt that the NIHRC could readily have found women who either are or would be victims of an unlawful act under the Human Rights Act 1998 and either supported or intervened in proceedings brought by those women.
The relevant sections of the Northern Ireland Act 1998, which established the Commission, are set out in full in paras 48, 49 and 50 of Lord Mances judgment.
Under section 69(5) of the Northern Ireland Act 1998, the NIHRC may do two things: the first is to give assistance to individuals in accordance with section 70 (section 69(5)(a)).
Section 70 applies to proceedings involving law or practice relating to the protection of human rights which a person in Northern Ireland has brought or wishes to bring (section 70(1)(a)) or proceedings in which such a person relies or wishes to rely on such law or practice (section 70(1)(b)).
This will clearly encompass, not only actions brought under section 7(1)(a) of the HRA, but also other proceedings in which a person wishes to rely on the HRA; the latter must include cases such as Ghaidan v Godin Mendoza [2004] 2 AC 557, in which there was no suggestion of an unlawful act by a public authority but the court was being asked to construe certain provisions of the Rent Act 1977 compatibly with the Convention rights.
The second thing that the NIHRC may do is to bring proceedings involving law or practice relating to the protection of human rights (section 69(5)(b)).
Unlike section 69(5)(a), there is no cross reference to another section of the Act which might limit the breadth of that power.
Nevertheless, it is argued that the power is limited by section 71, which is headed Restrictions on application of rights.
The first thing to notice about section 71 is that it is directed to sections 6(2)(c) or 24(1)(a) of the Northern Ireland Act (set out in para 51 of Lord Mances judgment).
Section 71(1) provides that nothing in those sections shall enable a person to bring any proceedings on the ground that any legislation or act is incompatible with the Convention rights or to rely on any of the Convention rights in any such proceedings unless he would be regarded as a victim of the legislation or act in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.
Section 6(2)(c) provides that an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly is outside its competence (and thus not law under section 6(2)) if it is incompatible with any of the Convention rights.
Section 71(3) limits the scope of that prohibition.
Section 24(1)(a) provides that a Minister or Northern Ireland department has no power to make, confirm or approve any subordinate legislation, or to do any act, so far as the legislation or act is incompatible with any of the Convention rights.
Section 71(4) similarly limits the scope of that prohibition.
The aim of section 71(1) was thus to prevent private persons bringing proceedings to challenge Acts of the Assembly, subordinate Northern Irish legislation or executive acts unless