 Against the Person Act 1861, as amended, provides that: Every woman, being with child, who, with intent to procure her own miscarriage, shall unlawfully administer to herself any poison or other noxious thing, or shall unlawfully use any instrument or other means whatsoever with the like intent, and whosoever, with intent to procure the miscarriage of any woman, whether she be or be not with child, shall unlawfully administer to her or cause to be taken by her any poison or other noxious thing, or shall unlawfully use any instrument or other means whatsoever with the like intent, shall be guilty of felony, and being convicted thereof shall be liable to be kept in penal servitude for life.
Section 59 of the 1861 Act, again as amended, provides that: Whosoever shall unlawfully supply or procure any poison or other noxious thing, or any instrument or thing whatsoever, knowing that the same is intended to be unlawfully used or employed with intent to procure the miscarriage of any woman, whether she be or be not with child, shall be guilty of a misdemeanour, and being convicted thereof shall be liable to be kept in penal servitude.
The Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1945 was an Act of the Northern Ireland Parliament made by virtue of powers vested in that body by section 20 of the Government of Ireland Act 1920.
Section 25 of the 1945 Act extended to Northern Ireland the effect of the materially identical section 1 of the Infant Life (Preservation) Act 1929.
Section 25 of the 1945 Act provides that: (1) Subject as hereafter in this sub section provided, any person who, with intent to destroy the life of a child capable of being born alive, by any wilful act causes a child to die before it has an existence independent of its mother, shall be guilty of felony, to wit, of child destruction, and shall be liable on conviction thereof on indictment to penal servitude for life: Provided that no person shall be found guilty of an offence under this section unless it is proved that the act which caused the death of the child was not done in good faith for the purpose only of preserving the life of the mother. (2) For the purposes of this and the next succeeding section, evidence that a woman had at any material time been pregnant for a period of 28 weeks or more shall be prima facie proof that she was at that time pregnant of a child then capable of being born alive.
Sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act have been considered with section 1 of the 1929 Act in England and Wales in R v Bourne [1939] KB 687 and with section 25 of the 1945 Act in Northern Ireland in Family Planning Association of Northern Ireland v Minister for Health, Social Services and Public Safety [2004] NICA 39; [2005] NI 188 (the FPANI case).
The latter case also dealt with section 25 of the 1945 Act.
In Bourne a surgeon performed an abortion on a young girl of 14 years who had become pregnant as a result of rape.
He was charged under section 58 of the 1861 Act with unlawfully procuring an abortion.
The jury was directed that it was for the prosecution to prove that the operation was not performed in good faith for the purpose of preserving the life of the girl.
The surgeon was not obliged to wait until the patient was in peril of immediate death.
As to the words of the 1929 Act, that no person shall be found guilty of an offence under this section unless it is proved that the act which caused the death of the child was not done in good faith for