 that the poster was misleading and that the claim, that 100,000 people were alive because of the law on abortion in Northern Ireland, could not be substantiated.
ASA did not uphold the complaint.
It considered that, contrary to the complaint that the advertisement had made an absolute, objective claim, it was a large, round figure that readers would typically associate with estimates and that, furthermore, readers would appreciate that it was not possible to calculate the precise number of abortions that would have theoretically occurred in Northern Ireland if abortion had been legal over the past 50 years.
The joint written submissions of the interveners, CARE, ADF International and Professor Patricia Casey, cited this figure and it was relied on in the oral submissions by Mr Mark Hill QC on their behalf, to support their claim that the abortion law in Northern Ireland had a positive, beneficial effect.
I do not consider that that claim is sustained by the material on which it purports to rely.
I say that for two reasons.
Firstly, although ASA dismissed the complaint, it is clear from its report that while it endorsed the methodologies employed by the campaign group, it did not vouch for the accuracy of the figure.
It is in the nature of such an exercise that, at best, only a broad estimate could be made.
Secondly, even if the accuracy of the figure could be established, it cannot be taken as a given that this outweighs the interests of women required to carry foetuses to term against their will.
In this context, it is to be remembered that the clear jurisprudence of Strasbourg (which will be discussed later in this judgment) is that a foetus does not enjoy rights, whereas the expectant mother does.
It is therefore misconceived to assert that, because a number of children have been born who would not otherwise have been, this trumps the essential case of the appellant on article 3.
This case is that a law requiring mothers to carry babies with fatal abnormalities to term or where their pregnancy is the result of rape or incest, carries an inevitable risk that a number of them will have suffered inhuman or degrading treatment, contrary to the article.
It is, in my opinion, beyond question that many women in Northern Ireland who have had to continue with a pregnancy against their will, or who have had to travel to England to obtain an abortion, have had to undergo treatment forbidden by article 3.
I will give my reasons for that conclusion later in this judgment.
In as much as the motivation of those responsible for the preservation of the laws bears on the question of whether an article 3 breach has been established, it can be said that it is difficult to ascertain what that motivation is, much less that it is soundly based.
The respondents point to the fact that on 10 February 2016, members of the Northern Ireland Assembly voted, by 59 votes to 40, against legalising abortion in cases of fatal foetal abnormality, after an amendment was tabled by a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) to the Justice (No 2) Bill.
A further amendment legalising it in cases of sexual crimes tabled by another MLA was also unsuccessful.
Since that date, the issue of the law on termination of pregnancy has not been further debated by the Assembly, nor has the Northern Ireland Executive considered outstanding proposals from the Department of Justice to change the law to cover cases of fatal foetal abnormality.
It would be quite wrong, in my view, to conclude from this that those MLAs who voted against the amendments shared the same stance on why the law should not be amended, much less that this vote is indicative of the will of the majority of the population in Northern Ireland that the law on abortion should be maintained.
As NIHRC has submitted, there is no