 would be unreasonable to expect the person to deal with the case without assistance because of its complexity, or because of the persons position in relation to another person involved, or for some other reason; that there are other special circumstances which (c) make it appropriate for the Commission to provide assistance. (3) Where the Commission grants an application under subsection (2) it may (a) provide, or arrange for the provision of, legal advice; (b) arrange for the provision of legal representation; (c) provide any other assistance which it thinks appropriate. (4) Arrangements made by the Commission for the provision of assistance to a person may include provision for recovery of expenses from in certain circumstances.
Section 71 reads as follows: the person 71.
Restrictions on application of rights. (1) Nothing in section 6(2)(c) or 24(1)(a) shall enable a person to bring any proceedings in a court or tribunal on (a) the ground that any legislation or act is incompatible with the Convention rights; or (b) to rely on any of the Convention rights in any such proceedings unless he would be a victim for the purposes of article 34 of the Convention if proceedings in respect of the legislation or act were brought in the European Court of Human Rights. (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to the Attorney General, the Advocate General for Northern Ireland, the Attorney General for Northern Ireland, the Advocate General for Scotland or the Lord Advocate. (2A) Subsection (1) does not apply to the Commission. (2B) In relation to the Commissions instituting, or intervening in, human rights proceedings (a) the Commission need not be a victim or potential victim of the unlawful act to which the proceedings relate, (b) section 7(3) and (4) of the Human Rights Act 1998 (c 42) (breach of Convention rights: sufficient interest, &c) shall not apply, (c) be one or more victims of the unlawful act, and (d) no award of damages may be made to the Commission (whether or not the exception in section 8(3) of that Act applies). the Commission may act only if there is or would (2C) For the purposes of subsection (2B) human rights proceedings means proceedings (a) which rely (wholly or partly) on section 7(1)(b) of the Human Rights Act (i) 1998, or (ii) (b) an expression used in subsection (2B) and in section 7 of the Human Rights Act 1998 has the same meaning in subsection (2B) as in section 7. section 69(5)(b) of this Act, and (3) Section 6(2)(c) (a) does not apply to a provision of an Act of the Assembly if the passing of the Act is, by virtue of subsection (2) of section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998, not unlawful under subsection (1) of that section; and (b) does not enable a court or tribunal to award in respect of the passing of an Act of the Assembly any damages which it could not award on finding the passing of the Act unlawful under that subsection. (4) Section 24(1)(a) (a) does not apply to an act which, by virtue of subsection (2) of section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998, is not unlawful under subsection (1) of that section; and (b) does not enable a court or tribunal to award in respect of an act any damages which it could not award on finding the act unlawful under that subsection.
In this section