 not subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (para 22).
In RR v Poland (2011) 53 EHRR 31, the court stated that it cannot be excluded that the acts and omissions of the authorities in the field of health care policy may in certain circumstances engage their responsibility under article 3 by reason of their failure to provide appropriate medical treatment (para 152).
In Chahal v United Kingdom (1996) 23 EHRR 413 the ECtHR held that the risk of the applicant being subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment if he was returned to India was sufficient to give rise to a breach of article 3 where the British authorities had evinced an intention to deport him there.
So also in Saadi v Italy [2008] 49 EHRR 30, the Strasbourg court held that since there were substantial grounds for believing that, in the event of his deportation to Tunisia, the applicant would face a real risk of ill treatment, contrary to article 3, to return him there, as the Italian authorities proposed to do, would violate his article 3 rights.
In Sufi and Elmi v United Kingdom [2011] 54 EHRR 9 it was held that the risk of the applicants being subjected to treatment which would violate article 3 if returned to Somalia meant that the British authorities would be in breach of the article if they carried through their intention to deport them to that country.
The risk of women and girls being subject to ill treatment contrary to article 3 is therefore sufficient to trigger the states positive obligations to take measures to prevent that happening.
That such a risk exists while the impugned legislative provisions remain in force is beyond dispute, in my opinion.
Article 3 prohibits torture and inhuman or degrading treatment.
Degrading treatment means subjecting someone to humiliation or debasement see RR v Poland at para 150.
In my view, it is plainly humiliating to require a girl or woman to continue a pregnancy when she knows that the foetus she carries will die or where she finds that pregnancy abhorrent because it is the consequence of rape or incest.
It has been suggested that since a woman from Northern Ireland who wishes to have an abortion can obtain one by travelling to England or Scotland, she can avoid inhuman or degrading treatment.
I do not accept this.
Termination of pregnancy is one of lifes most traumatic and fraught experiences.
To be required to travel away from home and to undergo an abortion in unfamiliar surroundings without the normal support network that a woman would expect and hope to have is in itself deeply upsetting.
A girl or woman who has become pregnant as a result of rape or incest is already in a vulnerable position and liable to suffer extreme distress.
So too a mother who has been told that the child she carries will not survive.
That distress can only be increased and compounded by forcing the woman to seek termination of her pregnancy in a different country, away from her family and friends and without the support of her own doctor.
The fact of being required to do so is in itself sufficient to expose her to the risk of inhuman and degrading treatment.
The Court of Appeals treatment of the article 3 issue
Sir Declan Morgan LCJ rejected the Commissions article 3 case on the ground that the standard of severity of impact required for its engagement in this field was so high see para 60 of his judgment.
In reaching that conclusion, the Lord Chief Justice examined four decisions of the Strasbourg court Tysiac v Poland (2007) 45 EHRR 42; A, B and C v Ireland (2010) 53 EHRR 13; RR v Poland; and P and S v Poland (2013) 129 BML