 has no separate rights in UK law, see In re MB [1997] 2 FLR 426; and Attorney Generals Reference (No 3 of 1994) [1998] AC 245.
This line of jurisprudence mirrors that in the Canadian Supreme court in Winnipeg Child and Family Services (Northwest Area) v G (1997) 3 BHRC 611.
In A, B and C v Ireland, ECtHR portrayed the balancing exercise between the first and second applicants article 8 rights and the interests of society in para 230 of its judgment thus: the Court must examine whether the prohibition of abortion in Ireland for health and/or well being reasons struck a fair balance between, on the one hand, the first and second applicants right to respect for their private lives under article 8 and, on the other, profound moral values of the Irish people as to the nature of life and consequently as to the need to protect the life of the unborn.
The first applicant had become pregnant unintentionally.
She was unmarried, unemployed and already had had four young children.
They had been taken into care because of As inability to cope with them.
She had a history of depression during all of her pregnancies.
She travelled to England for an abortion, believing that she would not be able to obtain one in Ireland.
Her case on article 8 was, therefore, firmly rooted in the claim that her rights under the article had been unjustifiably interfered with.
The second applicant also became pregnant unintentionally.
She had been advised by two different doctors that there was a substantial risk of an ectopic pregnancy but was aware by the time that she decided to travel to England for an abortion that the pregnancy was not ectopic.
She did not feel able to care for a child at this time in her life and the case was principally concerned with whether an abortion should be available on well being grounds.
In the case of the third applicant, C, she had been treated for three years with chemotherapy for a rare form of cancer.
She had been advised that it was not possible to predict the effect of pregnancy on her cancer and that if she did become pregnant it would be dangerous for the foetus if she were to have chemotherapy during the first trimester.
Her cancer went into remission and she became pregnant unintentionally.
She had been unaware of this when she underwent a series of tests for cancer which were contraindicated during pregnancy.
She consulted her general medical practitioner and several medical consultants.
She claimed that she did not receive sufficient information as to the impact of the pregnancy on her health and life and the consequences of her prior tests for cancer on the well being of the foetus.
At para 233, the court dealt with the margin of appreciation available to the Irish state in defence of its position that abortion should not be available to the states citizens: There can be no doubt as to the acute sensitivity of the moral and ethical issues raised by the question of abortion or as to the importance of the public interest at stake.
A broad margin of appreciation is, therefore, in principle to be accorded to the Irish state in determining the question whether a fair balance was struck between the protection of that public interest, notably the protection accorded under Irish law to the right to life of the unborn, and the conflicting rights of the first and second applicants to respect for their private lives under article 8 of the Convention.
At para 234, the court made the conventional point that a margin of appreciation would be narrowed where there was a relevant consensus among contracting states as to the circumstances in which abortion should be available.
Rejecting the governments submission to the contrary, at para 235, the court said that there was indeed a consensus among a substantial majority of the contracting states of the Council of Europe towards allowing abortion