 is in the nature of things that not every item of legislation which is inconsistent with ECHR rights will be subject to challenge by individuals affected by it.
To cater for that circumstance, it is appropriate that NIHRC should perform a supervisory function, monitoring legislation, both proposed and historic, for its conformity with contemporary human rights standards.
To deny it the legal capacity to challenge legislation would deprive the Commission of an important means of carrying out its fundamental role.
Moreover, the power to challenge incompatible legislation is a natural complement to the duty to advise the Secretary of State and the Executive Committee of the Northern Ireland Assembly about legislative and other measures necessary to protect human rights.
The respondents argue that neither NIA nor the Human Rights Act 1998 (HRA) confers on NIHRC a freestanding right to challenge legislation on the basis of its avowed incompatibility with ECHR.
It is claimed that the Commission may only contest the legislations consistency with the Convention in proceedings brought to challenge an act of a public authority which is said to be incompatible with an ECHR right and where there is an identified victim of the alleged unlawful act.
The requirement that there be a victim is derived from section 7 of HRA and section 71(1) of NIA.
Section 7 of HRA provides in subsection (1):
Section 71(1) of NIA originally provided that: (1) A person who claims that a public authority has acted (or proposes to act) in a way which is made unlawful by section 6(1) may (a) bring proceedings against the authority under this Act in the appropriate court or tribunal, or (b) in any legal proceedings, rely on the Convention right or rights concerned but only if he is (or would be) a victim of the unlawful act. (1) Nothing in section 6(2)(c), 24(1)(a) or 69(5)(b) shall enable a person (a) to bring any proceedings in a court or tribunal on the ground that any legislation or act is incompatible with the Convention rights; or (b) such proceedings, to rely on any of the Convention rights in any unless he would be a victim for the purposes of article 34 of the Convention if proceedings in respect of the legislation or act were brought in the European Court of Human Rights. (the reference to section 69(5)(b) was deleted in the amended version)
In In re Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission [2002] NI 236, the House of Lords held that the Commission had the power to apply to intervene in court proceedings where a human rights issue arose.
In para 11 of his speech, however, Lord Slynn of Hadley observed that section 69(5)(b) did not enable the Commission to bring proceedings on the ground that legislation was incompatible with a Convention right unless it was a victim for the purpose of proceedings brought in the European Court of Human Rights (referred to hereafter as ECtHR or the Strasbourg court).
And at para 23 he said that: in respect of proceedings in which it is sought to contend that legislation is incompatible with the European Human Rights Convention they can only be brought, it seems, if the Commission can show that it is a victim for the purposes of the Convention.
These observations prompted the amendment of section 71.
As originally enacted section 71(2) had provided that subsection (1) did not apply to the Attorney General, the Advocate General for Northern Ireland, the Attorney General for Northern Ireland, the Advocate General for Scotland or the Lord Advocate.
Section 14 of the Justice and Security (Northern Ireland) Act 2007 inserted the following provisions, among others, to section 71: (2A) Subsection (1