 involve the courts making a moral choice which is properly within the province of the democratically elected legislature.
In advancing the case that the interests of the unborn child should be balanced against the article 8 rights of the mother, the respondents relied heavily on the decision of ECtHR in the case of Vo v France (2004) 40 EHRR 12.
In that case, because of negligence on the part of her doctor, the applicant suffered injury to her amniotic sac, which necessitated the termination of her pregnancy.
The foetus was between 20 and 24 weeks at termination.
The doctor was charged with causing unintentional injury but was acquitted on the basis that the foetus was not, at that stage, a human person.
The Strasbourg court observed that article 2 (which guarantees the right to life) was silent as to when life began and on the issue of who came within its protection.
The court had not previously considered whether an unborn child had article 2 rights.
Such case law as there was indicated that, at least in the context of abortion, an unborn child did not have a right to life and was not a person within the meaning of article 2.
It had not been ruled out, however, that, in certain circumstances, the Convention might be applicable paras 76 80.
It was legally difficult, indeed inappropriate, to impose one exclusive answer to the question of when life began on all the contracting states of the Council of Europe.
This came within the margin of appreciation enjoyed by the various states para 82.
It is, of course, important to note that Vo was a case where there was no conflict between the rights of the mother and the interests of the foetus.
The mothers complaint was that her doctor had wrongly made it necessary to terminate her pregnancy.
There was no occasion for the court to consider what weight should be given to the position of the foetus in circumstances where the womans article 8 rights were being interfered with.
The Department of Justice has drawn attention to the observations of the Grand Chamber in Vo to the effect that there was no consensus among European states as to when life begins and suggests that, in effect, this is what NIHRC invites this court to recognise.
Mr McGleenan also argues that since the Strasbourg court has not moved to exclude prenatal life, this court should find that article 2 extends to protect the human rights of the most vulnerable.
He claims that a finding that article 2 did not extend protections to prenatal life would go against the very grain of the Convention.
I do not accept these arguments.
In the first place, the Grand Chamber in Vo had the opportunity to say that article 2 protected the life of the unborn child and explicitly refrained from so holding.
More fundamentally, however, if article 2 were held to apply to unborn life, no abortion could ever be legal.
In the context of abortion the right enshrined in article 2 would be absolute.
In my view, the proper construction to be placed on Vo is that contracting states enjoy a margin of appreciation in deciding when human life begins but that this does not afford protection to the foetus under article 2.
As NIHRC has submitted, no case in Strasbourg has recognised an article 2 entitlement for a foetus.
Indeed, such a finding would run directly counter to the consensus across the vast majority of contracting states as to the right to abortion in cases of rape, incest and fatal foetal abnormality.
While the laws of those states vary in terms of gestational limits, all apart from Ireland, Liechtenstein, Malta, San Marino and Andorra are unanimous in permitting abortion in those circumstances.
Domestic law does not recognise rights vested in the unborn child.
The courts of this country have consistently stated that the foetus