 term grooming by an older family member and the criminal law needs to protect adults from abuse in such circumstances.
Professor Temkins answer to the question in her title was affirmative.
She refers to innumerable studies showing that incest in all its forms is frequently harmful or extremely harmful to victims (p 186).
She cites D Glaser and S Froshs Child Sexual Abuse (1988), p 17, as recording that sexually abused children commonly show depression, guilt or lowered self esteem, and D Finkelhors study Sexually Victimised Children (1979), p 101, as indicating that father/daughter incest is particularly traumatic and as finding that the girls suffering most trauma were those abused between the ages of 16 and 18 (p 100).
Professor Temkin also points out that rape is hard to prove and that Many coercive and exploitative incestuous acts will not fall within the narrow legal definition of rape (p 193).
Incest is also destructive both to those who participate in it and to those who are indirectly involved (p 187).
It crosses a boundary, which is necessary to protect the family and the individual from the family (p 188).
It is, in short, potentially destructive of wider family relationships, even though it also witnesses a prior breakdown of ordinary behaviour.
These factors exist quite apart from a slight, though noticeable, risk of foetal and post natal abnormalities: surveys referred to in a Max Planck Institut report put before the German Constitutional Court in the case of Herrn S (2 BvR 392/07 of 26 February 2008) identify a 1.7 to 2.8% increased risk of genetic abnormalities in a child of an incestuous relationship and a 7 to 30% increased risk of disease in the first year of life.
In the present context, that risk, which is a further factor relied on by Professor Temkin in favour of the current criminalisation of incest, can be put on one side.
Most of the points made above with regard to incest are underlined in the German Federal Constitutional Courts judgment of 26 February 2008 in the case of Herrn S (2 BvR 392/07 of 26 February 2008).
This judgment, when examined by the European Court of Human Rights in Stbing v Germany (2012) 55 EHRR 24 was held not to involve any violation of article 8 of the Convention.
Stbing was in fact one of the cases, to which Professor Temkin refers as having so much exercised the romantic imagination of some writers (and, she might have added, at least one composer), but which are statistically irrelevant (p 188).
It was a case of a brother brought up from the age of three separate from his birth family, to which he only returned aged about 24, to discover that he had a seven years younger sister, with whom he very soon commenced consensual sexual relations, and over the next five years had four children.
Perhaps with such rare cases in mind, it has been suggested that the prohibition on consensual sexual relations between adults falling within the presently prohibited degrees of affinity should be reconsidered (see eg Incest Should Incest between Consenting Adults be a Crime? by H H Peter Bowsher QC [2015] Crim LR 208, and other material there cited).
But it is clear that, when pregnancy due to incest is under consideration, the focus cannot and should not be on the rare situation exemplified in Stbing.
Rather, it must be on the sort of picture found by the Scottish Law Commission in its 1980 Memorandum No: 44, The Law of Incest in Scotland.
Examining some 16 cases where pregnancies were alleged to have occurred, the Scottish