 authority has acted or proposes to act unlawfully.
Not surprisingly it requires that there be an identifiable victim of such an unlawful act.
But it does not apply to or limit the general power of the NIHRC to challenge the compatibility of legislation of any sort under sections 3 and 4 of the HRA.
This would be clearer still if the words if any were inserted after unlawful act in section 71(2B)(c), but it is in my view clear that the unlawful act means the unlawful act alleged in the proceedings, so it does not apply where no such unlawful act is alleged.
For the reasons given by Lord Kerr, it would be very surprising if it did limit the NIHRCs power to bring such a challenge.
It is to my mind clear that the Equality and Human Rights Commission in Great Britain, albeit operating under different legislation (set out in para 63 of Lord Mances judgment), does have that power, so there can be no objection in principle.
Article 8
I propose first to address the compatibility of Northern Ireland abortion law with article 8 of the ECHR, because it is common ground that the current law is indeed an interference with the right of pregnant women and girls to respect for their private lives which is guaranteed by article 8(1).
The question is whether in terms of article 8(2) it is justified because it is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
In answering the second part of that question, it is now customary to ask whether the measure in question has a legitimate aim, is rationally connected to that aim, and is a proportionate means of achieving it.
For the reasons given by Lord Kerr and Lord Mance, I agree that such interference is not justified, but would like to make a few points of my own.
Although the current state of the law has been criticised for its lack of clarity and is certainly not as clear as is the law in the rest of the UK it is no more uncertain than many other areas of the law which rely upon the application of particular concepts in this case a risk to life or of serious and prolonged or permanent injury to physical or mental health to the facts of a particular case.
It is also sufficiently accessible to those affected by it for the interference to be in accordance with the law for this purpose.
It is more difficult to articulate the legitimate aim.
It cannot be protecting the rights and freedoms of others, because the unborn are not the holders of rights under the Convention (Vo v France (2004) 40 EHRR 12) or under domestic law (In re MB (Medical Treatment) [1997] 2 FLR 426).
But the community undoubtedly does have a moral interest in protecting the life, health and welfare of the unborn it is that interest which underlies many areas of the law, including the regulation of assisted reproduction, and of the practice of midwifery, as well as of the termination of pregnancy.
But the community also has an interest in protecting the life, health and welfare of the pregnant woman that interest also underlies the regulation of assisted reproduction, of midwifery and of the termination of pregnancy.
And pregnant women are undoubtedly rights holders under the both the Convention and domestic law with autonomy as well as health and welfare rights.
The question, therefore, is how the balance is to be struck between the two.
Where there is no consensus of opinion among the member states of the European Union, the Strasbourg court will usually allow individual member states a wide (though not unlimited) margin of appreciation when undertaking such balancing exercises.
In A, B and C v Ireland (2010) 53 EHRR 13, the majority of the