 of her right to an abortion.
The focus of article 3 is on the impact on the person affected by the ill treatment alleged, not on the reasons which underlie it.
In Gfgen v Germany (quoted at para 216 above) the ECtHR stated that the Convention prohibits in absolute terms torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, irrespective of the conduct of the person concerned (para 87) and the prohibition on ill treatment of a person applies irrespective of the conduct of the victim or the motivation of the authorities.
Torture, inhuman or degrading treatment cannot be inflicted even in circumstances where the life of an individual is at risk.
No derogation is allowed even in the event of a public emergency threatening the life of a nation. (para 107)
In the case of Mubilanzila Mayeka and Kaniki Mitunga v Belgium (2006) 46 EHRR 23, which concerned a five year old child detained by the Belgian authorities in an immigration centre, the court assessed the impact of the treatment on the applicant, stating that her position was: characterised by her very young age, the fact that she was an illegal immigrant in a foreign land and the fact that she was unaccompanied by her family from whom she had become separated so that she was effectively left to her own devices.
She was thus in an extremely vulnerable situation.
In view of the absolute nature of the protection afforded by article 3 of the Convention, it is important to bear in mind that this is the decisive factor and it takes precedence over considerations relating to the second applicants status as an illegal immigrant.
She therefore indisputably came within the class of highly vulnerable members of society to whom the Belgian state owed a duty to take adequate measures to provide care and protection as part of its positive obligations under article 3 of the Convention. (para 55)
Those who come within a highly vulnerable class (such, I suggest, as girls or women who have become pregnant as the result of rape or incest, or those who are at risk of significant suffering because they are carrying babies with a fatal foetal abnormality) are owed duties by the state under article 3 of the Convention.
The nature of that duty to those within the vulnerable class is, as this case illustrates, to take adequate measures for their care and protection.
In other words, it is incumbent on the state to recognise the vulnerability of girls and women in those categories and to take steps to ensure that they are appropriately protected.
The states duty does not depend on or require the onset of actual suffering by an individual within the class.
It is triggered by recognition of the likelihood that such suffering will occur to at least some members of the vulnerable group.
P and S v Poland was a case in which the applicants were daughter and mother.
In 2008, at the age of 14, P became pregnant as a result of rape.
In order to have an abortion, in accordance with the 1993 Polish Law on Family Planning, she obtained a certificate from the public prosecutor on 20 May 2008 to the effect that her pregnancy had resulted from unlawful sexual intercourse.
Thereafter, the applicants encountered substantial difficulties in obtaining an abortion for P. She came under pressure to have the baby from the head gynaecologist of one of the hospitals to which she had been brought; similar pressure was exerted by a Catholic priest who had been brought to see her, although she did not ask for him; she was induced to sign a statement that she wished to carry the baby to term; her mother was required to sign a statement that the carrying out of the abortion would put Ps life at risk; details of the case were released to the media and P was subject to intrusive and distressing messages and a press campaign