 also, subsection (1) as originally enacted commenced with the words: Nothing in section 6(2)(c), 24(1)(a) or 69(5)(b) shall enable a person Subject to the omission in 2007 of the reference in subsection (1) to section 69(5)(b) and the addition in 2007 of the reference to the Advocate General for Northern Ireland in 2007, subsections (1) and (2) remain otherwise as originally enacted.
In In re Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission, the Commission had been refused permission by a coroner to intervene in an inquest into the Omagh bomb explosion in 1998, where in its view questions of human rights had arisen on which it would be appropriate for it to make submissions.
By a majority, the House held that a power to intervene could be regarded as incidental to other powers expressly conferred by section 69, while noting that neither section 69(5)(a) nor section 69(5)(b) applied in terms, and that both could, under the then wording, only be invoked if the Commission could show that it was a victim for the purposes of the Convention.
The Commission would, in reality, have been unable to do this.
Firstly, it is a statutory public authority, listed as such in paragraph 1A of Schedule 2 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967, to which reference is made in section 75(3)(a) of the NI Act 1998.
It is a core public authority within the scope of that concept as identified in Aston Cantlow and Wilmcote with Billesley Parochial Church Council v Wallbank [2004] 1 AC 546, para 8, per Lord Nicholls, and paras 43 47, per Lord Hope.
As the House there acknowledged, core public authorities owe Convention duties, but cannot themselves be victims.
Even if the Commission had been a hybrid public authority, this would only mean that it was not a public authority in respect of acts of a private nature: see Aston Cantlow, para 11 per Lord Nicholls.
The present proceedings are indisputably of a public nature.
Secondly and in any event, the Convention test of victimhood requires an individual applicant to have been actually affected by the alleged violation, and does not contemplate a kind of actio popularis relating to the interpretation or application of Convention rights: Klass v Germany (1978) 2 EHRR 214.
The European Court of Human Rights reiterated this point with clarity in Stbing v Germany (2012) 55 EHRR 24, para 62: [I]n cases arising from individual applications it is not the Courts task to examine domestic legislation in the abstract.
Rather, it must examine the manner in which the relevant legislation was applied to the applicant in the particular
circumstances of the individual case
In section 71(1) as originally enacted, it is clear that the reference to sections 6(2)(c), 24(1)(a) and 69(5)(b) covered all circumstances in which it was contemplated that these sections could be invoked.
The legislature, for understandable reasons (see para 60 above), did not contemplate or provide that the Commission should have competence under section 69(5)(b) to bring abstract proceedings under sections 3 and 4 of the HRA.
In this respect, it was following the general approach of the European Court of Human Rights itself: see Klass v Germany and Stbing v Germany (para 68 above).
The need to focus on individual facts was also powerfully emphasised (in the context of article 8) by Judge Lpez Guerra, joined