 of the critical words which Parliament intended. (para 37) and that and that: It is not a literal construction, but a departure from a literal construction is justified where it is necessary to enable the provision to have the effect which Parliament must have intended. (para 39)
Bennion on Statutory Interpretation, 7th ed (2017), states at section 11.1 that: General judicial adoption of the term purposive construction is relatively recent, but the concept is not new the idea that the courts should pay regard to the purpose of a provision led to the resolution in Heydons case [which was reported in 1584]. when judges speak of purposive construction, they are often referring to a strained construction However, a purposive construction in the true sense (that is, construing an enactment with the aim of giving effect to the legislative purpose) does not necessarily require the statutory language to be strained.
Most often, a purposive construction in this sense will also be a grammatical construction, as the purpose and wording of an enactment will usually align with one another.
The conclusion that the Commission has standing to institute proceedings does not require a strained construction of the legislation.
The statement in section 71(2B)(c) that the Commission may bring proceedings only where there is or would be victims of an unlawful act can reasonably be interpreted to mean that the Commission may act where it is clear that there have been and will be victims of the implementations of the provisions of the 1861 and 1945 Acts (as noted in para 58 above).
Indeed, to interpret these words as meaning that a case must be brought in relation to a specific potential victim and a specific unlawful act constitutes a much more obviously strained construction.
Section 11.1 of Bennion also cites the American case of Cabell v Markham (1945) 148 F 2d 737, in which Justice Learned Hand explained the merits of purposive interpretation: Of course, it is true that the words used, even in their literal sense, are the primary, and ordinarily the most reliable, source of interpreting the meaning of any writing: be it a statute, a contract, or anything else.
But it is one of the surest indexes of a mature and developed jurisprudence not to make a fortress out of the dictionary; but to remember that statutes always have some purpose or object to accomplish, whose sympathetic and imaginative discovery is the surest guide to their meaning.
Whether the interpretation of the relevant provisions is considered in terms of giving effect to the overall purpose of the legislation or curing a mischief or in its historical context, the permissible and plainly proper construction to be given to those provisions is that the Commission has standing to bring the present proceedings.
The decision in this case sweeps away a vital protection for the people of Northern Ireland which, I am convinced, Parliament intended that they should have.
It is my hope that Parliament will swiftly restore that protection in legislation which permits no debate as to its purpose.
There is another consideration.
It relates to the constitutional character of the NIA.
In Robinson v Secretary of State for Northern Ireland [2002] NI 390, Lord Bingham made the following statement at para 11 in relation to that Act: The 1998 Act does not set out all the constitutional provisions applicable to Northern Ireland, but it is in effect a constitution. the provisions should, consistently with the language used, be interpreted generously and purposively, bearing in mind the values which the constitutional provisions are intended to embody.
To like effect, in R v Director of Public Prosecutions, Ex p Kebeline [2000] 2 AC 326, 375, Lord Hope said: In Attorney General of Hong Kong v Lee Kwong kut [1993] AC 