 Strasbourg recognises that in the field of social policy, there may be different views among the individual contracting states, reflecting, among other things, differing moral standards and cultural values of the various societies of the states which comprise the Council of Europe.
Where those differences are marked, ECtHR evinces a reticence in imposing a universal prescription applicable to all contracting states and leaves it to the institutions of those states to make the choice which best suits the concerns and values of its citizens.
When it comes to the domestic superintendence by one institution (the judiciary) of another institutions (the executives or the legislatures) decision in the field of human rights, there is no place for reticence on the basis of a margin of appreciation.
There may be a case for the courts to defer to the decision of one of the other organs of the state either because of what is sometimes described as institutional competence or, relatedly, because it is considered that the decision maker is more fully equipped to take a decision than is the court.
But that is not, in the strict sense, a question of the domestic courts according a margin of appreciation to those institutions.
Horner J dealt with this subject admirably in the section of his judgment entitled Margin of Appreciation between paras 35 and 56.
I agree with all that he had to say there and need not repeat it, beyond recalling his apt quotation of the celebrated passage from the speech of Lord Bingham of Cornhill in A v Secretary of State for the Home Department [2005] 2 AC 68, para 42: I do not accept the distinction which [the Attorney General] drew between democratic institutions and the courts.
It is of course true that the judges in this country are not elected and are not answerable to Parliament.
It is also of course true that Parliament, the executive and the courts have different functions.
But the function of independent judges charged to interpret and apply the law is universally recognised as a cardinal feature of the modern democratic State, a cornerstone of the rule of law itself.
The Attorney General is fully entitled to insist on the proper limits of judicial authority, but he is wrong to stigmatise judicial decision making as in some way undemocratic.
It is particularly inappropriate in a case such as the present in which Parliament has expressly legislated in section 6 of the 1998 Act to render unlawful any act of a public authority, including a court, incompatible with a Convention right, has required courts (in section 2) to take account of relevant Strasbourg jurisprudence, has (in section 3) required the courts, as far as possible, to give effect to Convention rights and has conferred a right of appeal on derogation issues.
The effect is not, of course, to override the sovereign legislative authority of the Queen in Parliament, since if primary legislation is declared to be incompatible the validity of the legislation is unaffected (section 4(6)) and the remedy lies with the appropriate minister (section 10), who is answerable to Parliament.
The 1998 Act gives the courts a very specific, wholly democratic, mandate.
As Professor Jowell has put it, The courts are charged by Parliament with delineating the boundaries of a rights based democracy. (Judicial deference: servility, civility or institutional capacity? [2003] PL 592, 597).
The institutional competence factor has sometimes been expressed as the discretionary area of judgment see R v Director of Public Prosecutions, Ex p Kebeline [2000] 2 AC 326, 381, per Lord Hope, where he said: In this area difficult choices may have to be made by the executive or the legislature between the rights of the individual and the needs of society.
In some circumstances it will be appropriate