 40 against amendments to the Justice (No 2) Bill which would have legalised abortion in cases of fatal foetal abnormality and by 64 votes to 32 against amendments legalising abortion in cases of rape, incest or indecent assault.
The opposition to these amendments was presented on the basis that the Justice Bill was the wrong vehicle for consideration of an issue which was best dealt with in a more measured way, and was accompanied by a proposal for a working group.
Such a group was set up, and it is anticipated that it will recommend reform.
But, in the absence of any Northern Ireland government since early 2017, no progress has been possible.
Nonetheless, Mr McGleenan submits, the ordinary legislative process should be followed, even though it is, at least for the time being, at an impasse.
On the other hand, the Commission now submits that there is strong public support for changes in the law.
A poll commissioned by Amnesty International in 2014 found that respectively 69%, 68% and 60% of those polled people considered that abortion should be permitted in cases of respectively rape, incest and fatal foetal abnormality.
In 2017 the Northern Ireland Life and Times Survey, a joint project of Queens University, Belfast and the Ulster University, reported on the results of a survey undertaken in 2016, which showed the following percentages definitely or probably in favour of permitting abortion in the following situations: Probably Foetus 23 has fatal abnormality and will not survive birth Foetus has serious abnormality and may not survive birth Pregnancy due to rape or incest A woman has a serious health condition and a doctor says she will die if she continues with the pregnancy A doctor says there is a serious threat to the womans physical or mental health if she continues with the pregnancy Definitely 58 24 27 54 56 30 28 46 45 17 44 31 17 A doctor says there is more risk to the life of a pregnant woman if she continues with the pregnancy than if she were to have an abortion A woman wants an abortion because she does not want to have
children
Neither Horner J nor Weatherup LJ in the Court of Appeal was prepared to put much weight on opinion polls in the present context.
Weatherup LJ noted that a referendum had not been held and could not be expected in Northern Ireland where the use of a referendum is usually reserved for constitutional issues (para 145).
Accordingly, he said, support for a measure must be gauged by the votes of members of Parliament and in respect of devolved matters that means the votes of the members of the Northern Ireland Assembly.
Weatherup LJs observations address an important point.
The paradigm, at both the Westminster and devolved levels, is one of representative democracy.
It is integral to representative democracy that a Parliament or other legislative Assembly may reach and maintain decisions which would not be shared by a majority if put to a popular vote.
A classic instance is the abolition in most cases of the death penalty in the UK in 1965, in circumstances where public opinion overwhelmingly supported its retention at that date, and appears to have remained on balance in favour of such a penalty until 50 years later.
Where deployed as an exception to this paradigm, a referendum can certainly have a potent effect.
But there are no rules as to when referenda take place, and none is likely on the subject of abortion in Northern Ireland.
And opinion polls can never equate to a referendum.
Views elicited by opinion polls cannot by themselves prevail over the decision to date by the Northern Ireland Assembly to maintain, at least for the present, the existing policy and law.
As a matter of general principle, the paradigm must apply, when it comes to deciding whether the present prohibition purs