availability in Northern Ireland of abortion in cases of serious malformation of a foetus was not incompatible with the Convention rights of women in that country.
I agree with his reasoning and conclusions.
The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD) is one of the treaties specified as an EU treaty under the EC (Definition of Treaties) (UNCRPD) Order 2009.
Section 6(2)(d) of the NIA forbids the Northern Ireland Assembly from making laws contrary to UNCRPD.
That circumstance alone would not, of course, preclude a finding of incompatibility but, as Horner J pointed out, UNCRPD is based on the premise that if abortion is permissible, there should be no discrimination on the basis that the foetus, because of a defect, will result in a child being born with a physical or mental disability.
That is a weighty factor to place in the balance, and one which is not present in cases of fatal foetal abnormality or rape and incest.
This is particularly so in the light of UNCRPD Committees consistent criticism of any measure which provides for abortion in a way which distinguishes between the unborn on the basis of a physical or mental disability, relying on general principles and obligations (articles 1 4) and equality and non discrimination (article 5) see Horner J at para 65.
As Horner J pointed out, many children born with disabilities, even grave disabilities, lead happy, fulfilled lives.
In many instances they enrich and bring joy to their families and those who come into contact with them.
Finally, the difficulty in devising a confident and reliable definition of serious malformation is a potent factor against the finding of incompatibility.
For these and the other reasons given by the judge, I would refuse to make a declaration of incompatibility in the case of serious malformation of the foetus.
LORD REED: (with whom Lord Lloyd Jones agrees)
I respectfully agree with Lord Mance, for the reasons which he gives, that the Commission has no power to bring the present proceedings.
The questions referred by the Attorney General for Northern Ireland should be answered in the negative and the appeal of the Commission should be dismissed.
Given that conclusion, it would ordinarily follow that the court should express no view on whether the laws challenged by the Commission are or are not compatible with Convention rights.
Since Parliament has not conferred on the Commission the power to bring proceedings challenging in the abstract the compatibility of legislation with Convention rights, it follows that it cannot have intended that the courts should determine that issue in proceedings of that nature.
That conclusion is supported by the practical difficulties involved in attempting to carry out an abstract assessment of compatibility, unanchored to the facts of any particular case.
Those members of the court who take a different view of the Commissions standing to bring these proceedings are however expressing their opinion on the question which it has placed before the court; and Lord Mance also considers it appropriate to do so for the reasons which he has explained.
In those circumstances, it is as well that I should explain my own view.
General observations
It is difficult to envisage a more controversial issue than the proper limits of the law governing abortion.
Diametrically opposed views, and every shade of opinion in between, are held with equal sincerity and conviction.
Each side of the debate appeals to moral or religious values which are held with passionate intensity.
In a democracy on the British model, the natural place for that debate to be resolved is in the legislature.
The laws involvement in the question is strictly limited.
Parliament has enacted the Human Rights Act 1998, which requires the courts to give effect to the Convention rights of individuals so far as that can be done compatibly with primary legislation, and