 section 59).
He also considered that impairment of health might reach a stage where it was a danger to life, and that the words ought to be construed in a reasonable sense, and, if the doctor is of opinion, on reasonable grounds and with adequate knowledge, that the probable consequence of the continuance of the pregnancy will be to make the woman a physical or mental wreck, the jury are quite entitled to take the view that the doctor, who, in these circumstances, and in that honest belief, operates, is operating for the purpose of preserving the life of the mother: pp 693 694.
further relaxed, in particular by the Abortion Act 1967, providing: In other parts of the United Kingdom, the prohibition of abortion has been 1.
Medical termination of pregnancy. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, a person shall not be guilty of an offence under the law relating to abortion when a pregnancy is terminated by a registered medical practitioner if two registered medical practitioners are of the opinion, formed in good faith that the pregnancy has not exceeded its twenty (a) fourth week and that the continuance of the pregnancy would involve risk, greater than if the pregnancy were terminated, of injury to the physical or mental health of the pregnant woman or any existing children of her family; or that the termination is necessary to prevent grave (b) permanent injury to the physical or mental health of the pregnant woman; or (c) that the continuance of the pregnancy would involve risk to the life of the pregnant woman, greater than if the pregnancy were terminated; or (d) that there is a substantial risk that if the child were born it would suffer from such physical or mental abnormalities as to be seriously handicapped. (2) In determining whether the continuance of a pregnancy would involve such risk of injury to health as is mentioned in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of this section, account may be taken of the pregnant womans actual or reasonably foreseeable
environment
In Northern Ireland, the law remains as stated in the 1861 and 1945 Acts and explained in R v Bourne.
In Family Planning Association of Northern Ireland v Minister for Health, Social Services and Public Safety [2004] NICA 37, [2005] NI 188 (the FPANI case), the Association did not challenge that proposition, but by judicial review proceedings, claimed, successfully in the Court of Appeal, that it was incumbent on the defendant Minister to investigate how many women in Northern Ireland who had pregnancies terminated in other parts of the United Kingdom could have had their abortions terminated lawfully in Northern Ireland, to provide guidance to women in that position to reduce the number travelling abroad for abortions and to provide guidance to clinicians to enable them to ensure that those having abortions gave informed consent.
The Court of Appeal also expressed views about the effect of the principles established in R v Bourne.
The Court concluded that it was incumbent on the Minister or his department to investigate the need for and if necessary issue guidelines to clarify for the medical profession and the public the legal principles governing abortion, including the provision of aftercare for those having abortions in Northern Ireland as well as those returning from having an abortion in England.
Its conclusions were to be expressed more precisely in declarations, which were not examined before the Supreme Court on the present appeal.
Articles 2, 3, 8 and 14 of the Convention rights scheduled to the HRA provide as follows: 2.
Right to life. 1.
Everyones right to life shall be protected by law. 2.
Deprivation of life shall not be regarded as inflicted in contravention of this article when it results from the use of force which is not more than absolutely necessary: in defence of any person from unlawful violence; in order to