 regulation of abortion rights solely a matter for the contracting states, as the Government maintained relying on certain international declarations.
However, and as explained above, the Court must decide on the compatibility with article 8 of the Convention of the Irish states prohibition of abortion on health and well being grounds on the basis of the above described fair balance test to which a broad margin of appreciation is applicable.
This constitutes a reassertion of the need for a balancing of the competing interests.
The passage does not explain how this is to be carried out, however, other than by referring again to the broad margin of appreciation, which, apparently, derives from the lack of consensus as to when life begins.
Quite why a lack of consensus on that matter should prompt a broad margin of appreciation on the circumstances in which abortion should be permitted, and how it affects the balancing exercise in practice, remain unexplained.
Some insight into the courts reasoning is to be gleaned from the first passage of para 239: From the lengthy, complex and sensitive debate in Ireland as regards the content of its abortion laws, a choice has emerged.
Irish law prohibits abortion in Ireland for health and well being reasons but allows women, in the first and second applicants position who wish to have an abortion for those reasons, the option of lawfully travelling to another state to do so (Emphasis supplied)
The background to the restriction of abortion in Ireland was that a referendum had been held in 1983, resulting in the adoption of a provision which became article 40.3.3 of the Irish Constitution which was in the following terms: The State acknowledges the right to life of the unborn and, with due regard to the equal right to life of the mother, guarantees in its laws to respect, and, as far as practicable, by its laws to defend and vindicate that right.
In the referendum 53.67% of the electorate had voted, with 841,233 votes in favour of this amendment and 416,136 against.
Although proposals in subsequent referenda which sought to restrict further the circumstances in which abortion might be available in Ireland were defeated, ECtHR in the A, B and C case plainly laid great store by the result of the 1983 poll.
At para 126 of its judgment, for instance, it said that the applicants, in travelling abroad to obtain abortions, were conscious that they were going against the profound moral values of the majority of the Irish people.
The government had submitted to the Strasbourg court that the protection accorded under Irish law to the right to life of the unborn was based on profound moral values deeply embedded in the fabric of society in Ireland and the legal position was defined through equally intense debate.
At para 222 the court said of this argument: The Court recalls that, in the Open Door case [(1992) 15 EHRR 244], it found that the protection afforded under Irish law to the right to life of the unborn was based on profound moral values concerning the nature of life which were reflected in the stance of the majority of the Irish people against abortion
during the 1983 referendum
Clearly, therefore, the Strasbourg court in A, B and C considered that it should continue to deal with the question of justification of the restrictions on abortion in Ireland on the basis that they reflected the profound moral values of a majority of the Irish population.
Whether that was justified on the basis of a referendum held 28 years before in which only 53.67% of the population voted is at least questionable but, in any event, no such assumption may be made in respect of the population of Northern Ireland.
For the reasons that I have given, the vote in 2016 in the Assembly cannot be taken as an indication that the majority of the elected representatives opposed reform.
To the contrary,