 on broader grounds than that accorded under Irish law.
The first and second applicants could have obtained an abortion on request (according to certain criteria including gestational limits) in some 30 such states.
The first applicant could have obtained an abortion justified on health and well being grounds in approximately 40 contracting states and the second applicant could have obtained an abortion justified on well being grounds in some 35 contracting states.
Despite this significant consensus, the court concluded that the margin of appreciation had not been decisively narrowed.
It is of critical importance that one should focus precisely on why the court arrived at that (which would at first sight appear to be an) anomalous result.
The essential reasoning of the court on this issue is given at para 237: Of central importance is the finding in the above cited Vo case that the question of when the right to life begins came within the states margin of appreciation because there was no European consensus on the scientific and legal definition of the beginning of life, so that it was impossible to answer the question whether the unborn was a person to be protected for the purposes of article 2.
Since the rights claimed on behalf of the foetus and those of the mother are inextricably interconnected, the margin of appreciation accorded to a states protection of the unborn necessarily translates into a margin of appreciation for that state as to how it balances the conflicting rights of the mother.
It follows that, even if it appears from the national laws referred to that most contracting parties may in their legislation have resolved those conflicting rights and interests in favour of greater legal access to abortion, this consensus cannot be a decisive factor in the Courts examination of whether the impugned prohibition on abortion in Ireland for health and well being reasons struck a fair balance between the conflicting rights and interests, notwithstanding an evolutive Convention. interpretation of
Two themes emerge from this passage.
The first is that there is no consensus as to when life begins.
The second is that the rights claimed on behalf of the foetus and those of the mother are interconnected.
As to the first of these, as I have pointed out, full article 2 protection cannot be afforded the foetus otherwise no termination of pregnancy would be lawful. (Indeed, as will become clear, the ECtHR acknowledged this in para 238).
The courts reference to article 2 is only explicable on the basis that some lesser form of protection for the interests of the unborn child can be recognised by an individual contracting state.
The majority in A, B and C did not explain how that might work in practice.
As to the interconnectedness of the interests of the mother and her unborn child, it is not made clear what, if any impact, this should have on the balancing exercise.
The majority certainly found that there was an interference with the applicants rights, and with it came the obligation on the part of the state to justify that interference.
What is not clear from the judgment is whether an adjustment to the way in which the interests of the mother and those of the community generally is required because the interests of the foetus and the mother are interconnected.
The matter becomes even less clear, in my opinion, when one considers para 238 of the majoritys judgment: It is indeed the case that this margin of appreciation is not unlimited.
The prohibition impugned by the first and second applicants must be compatible with a states Convention obligations and, given the Courts responsibility under article 19 of the Convention, the Court must supervise whether the interference constitutes a proportionate balancing of the competing interests involved.
A prohibition of abortion to protect unborn life is not therefore automatically justified under the Convention on the basis of unqualified deference to the protection of pre natal life or on the basis that the expectant mothers right to respect for her private life is of a lesser stature.
Nor is the