 right to one in Ireland.
Each had become pregnant unintentionally.
The Court found that the first applicant had had an abortion for reasons of health and well being, namely her history of alcoholism, post natal depression and difficult family circumstances, the second applicant had had an abortion because she did not feel ready to be a mother, and the third applicant had had an abortion because of a fear (whether or not well founded) that her pregnancy constituted a risk to her life, because it might cause her cancer to recur and mean that she did not then receive cancer treatment in Ireland.
The Court accepted that, although the psychological impact was not susceptible to clear proof, travelling abroad for an abortion constituted a significant psychological burden on each applicant (para 126), and said that an abortion in Ireland would have been a less arduous process, as well as less expensive.
The third applicant made the additional complaint (which the Court upheld under article 8) that there had been no proper regulatory framework and system for considering and establishing whether she was entitled to an abortion in Ireland.
The judgment is of interest for the Courts treatment of the complaints made in the above circumstances by all three applicants under article 3.
The Court recited the effect of the first two sentences quoted above from Gfgen and went on simply to say that the facts alleged do not disclose a level of severity falling within the scope of article 3, with the result that it rejected the complaints under that article as manifestly ill founded (paras 164 165).
I note in passing that, contrary to the Commissions submissions before the Supreme Court, I see no reason to exclude as a relevant factor in the connection that the foetuses in question would have been viable.
The first and second applicants complaints under article 8 were rejected on the ground that the prohibition in Ireland of abortion for health and well being reasons, based as it is on the profound moral views of the Irish people as to the nature of life left open the right to lawfully travel abroad for an abortion with access to appropriate information and medical care in Ireland, and represented a choice which fell within the margin of appreciation accorded to the Irish state (para 241).
The third applicant succeeded under article 8 on special grounds, as already mentioned.
In two cases the European Court of Human Rights has held that article 3 was infringed by failures to give effect to rights to an abortion which domestic law in the circumstances conferred.
It is well established in Strasbourg case law that a Convention breach may consist in failing to give effect to domestic law rights, even though there is no Convention obligation on domestic law to provide such rights: see eg RR v Poland (2011) 53 EHRR 31, para 200, Marckx v Belgium (1979) 2 EHRR 330, para 31, and Stec v United Kingdom (2005) 41 EHRR SE18, para 53.
In RR v Poland the applicant learned of possible malformation of the foetus from an ultrasound at the 18 week stage.
Her repeated requests for genetic tests were met with procrastination, confusion and a lack of proper counselling and information, and it was not until the 23rd week that, with the help of a sympathetic doctor, she was able to gain access to a hospital by subterfuge and have appropriate tests, the results of which were only available two weeks later.
She was then told that the foetus had Edwards syndrome, but was refused an abortion on the basis that it was now too late, after the 24 week stage.
As a result, she had to carry the baby to term, and deliver it.
The legislation providing for abortion expressly, and unequivocally entitled a pregnant woman to unimpeded access to prenatal information and testing