 for the courts to recognise that there is an area of judgment within which the judiciary will defer, on democratic grounds, to the considered opinion of the elected body or person whose act or decision is said to be incompatible with the Convention.
The notion of deference to the elected institutions has not been without criticism.
In R (Lord Carlile of Berriew) v Secretary of State for the Home Department [2015] AC 945 Lord Sumption at para 22 said: As a tool for assessing the practice by which the courts accord greater weight to the executives judgment in some cases than in others, the whole concept of deference has been subjected to powerful academic criticism: see, notably, TSR Allan, Human Rights and Judicial Review: a Critique of Due Deference [2006] CLJ 671; J Jowell, Judicial Deference: Servility, Civility or Institutional Capacity? [2003] PL 592.
At least part of the difficulty arises from the word, with its overtones of cringing abstention in the face of superior status.
In some circumstances, deference is no more than a recognition that a Court of review does not usurp the function of the decision maker, even when Convention rights are engaged.
Beyond that elementary principle, the assignment of weight to the decision makers judgment has nothing to do with deference in the ordinary sense of the term.
It has two distinct sources.
The first is the constitutional principle of the separation of powers.
The second is no more than a pragmatic view about the evidential value of certain judgments of the executive, whose force will vary according to the subject matter.
On the question of the usurpation of the function of the decision maker, in the circumstances of the present case, this simply does not arise.
The Northern Ireland Assembly has not made a decision.
Its largest party, at the time of the debate in February 2016, declared that further consultation and consideration were required.
Other parties, such as the SDLP, who voted against the measure, were not irreversibly opposed to reform.
Likewise, the evidential value of judgments of the executive holds no sway here because none has been made.
The courts should feel no sense of inhibition in relation to the question of whether the current law offends article 8 of the Convention, in the light of the absence of any firmly expressed view of the democratic institutions of Northern Ireland.
Substantial reliance was placed by the respondents on the decision of this court in R (Nicklinson) v Secretary of State for Justice [2015] AC 657.
In that case the claimants, although suffering from irreversible physical disabilities rendering them immobile, were of sound mind and aware of their predicament.
They wished to die at a time of their choosing but were not physically capable of ending their own lives unaided.
They had a settled and considered wish that their death should be hastened by the requisite assistance.
They sought judicial review on the basis that, under both common law and ECHR, those who provided them with assistance to bring about their death ought not to be subject to any criminal consequences.
In particular, they applied for declarations that the law of murder, or of assisted suicide forbidden by section 2(1) of the Suicide Act 1961, was incompatible with the right to respect for private life under article 8 of ECHR.
At para 116, Lord Neuberger said: There is a number of reasons which, when taken together, persuade me that it would be institutionally inappropriate at this juncture for a court to declare that section 2 is incompatible with article 8, as opposed to giving Parliament the opportunity to consider the position without a declaration.
First, the question whether the provisions of section 2 should be modified raises a difficult,