 have created a risk to the life of the mother or would have caused serious and long term harm to her physical or mental health.
Campbell LJ in the FPANI case said in para 140 that the law in Northern Ireland permits a termination where there is a serious and long term risk to the mothers mental or physical health or well being.
Sheil LJ, in accepting the principles which were said by counsel for the Minister for Health to encapsulate the law in Northern Ireland, reached essentially the same conclusion.
Among those principles were that a termination of pregnancy was unlawful unless performed to preserve the life of the mother; that life included mental and physical life; that a termination would be lawful where there was a real and serious adverse effect on health but that this had to be permanent or long term.
This, therefore, was the law of Northern Ireland, as pronounced by a unanimous Court of Appeal in that jurisdiction in October 2004.
The Lord Chief Justices judgment in the present case would have brought about a significant change in that law in two respects.
In the first place, it would shift the emphasis towards the need to protect to a reasonable extent the life that women [in cases such as those of Mrs Topley and Mrs Ewart] would enjoy (emphasis supplied).
Secondly it would eliminate the requirement that there be a real, serious, long term or permanent effect on the womans physical or mental health.
This would be a radical departure from not only the law as Macnaghten J declared it to be in Bourne but also as the Court of Appeal in Northern Ireland held it to be in 2004.
The fundamental nature of the alteration of the law that this would bring about is perhaps best illustrated by the Lord Chief Justices statement that the court was required to determine what was reasonably tolerable in todays society.
I do not consider that such a change in statutory law can be achieved by judicial decision.
The 1861 and 1945 Acts are the foundation of the law on abortion in Northern Ireland.
They forbid the termination of pregnancy unless it is required to preserve the mothers life.
That has been interpreted to mean that abortion is permitted in order to save the mother from a condition of physical or mental devastation.
That condition has been held to equiparate to long term or permanent effect on the mothers health which is both real and serious.
I do not consider that it is possible to stretch the concept of preservation of life beyond these notions.
The proceedings
On 2 February 2015, NIHRC was given permission to apply for judicial review.
Three declarations were sought: (i) A declaration pursuant to section 6 and section 4 of HRA, that sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act and section 25 of the 1945 Act were incompatible with articles 3, 8 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms [hereafter ECHR or the Convention] as they relate to access to termination of pregnancy services for women with pregnancies involving a serious malformation of the foetus or pregnancy as a result of rape or incest. (ii) A declaration that, notwithstanding the provisions of sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act and section 25 of the 1945 Act, women in Northern Ireland may lawfully access termination of pregnancy services within Northern Ireland in cases of serious malformation of the foetus or rape or incest. (iii) Further and in the alternative, a declaration that the rights of women in Northern Ireland, with a diagnosis of serious malformation of the foetus or who are pregnant as a result of rape or incest, under articles 3, 8 and 14 of ECHR are breached by sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act and section 25