 opinion that places great weight on the interests of the unborn child and believes that, even in the situations in issue on this appeal, those interests deserve such protection as the present legislative prohibition affords.
How much protection is actually achieved, when the possibility exists and is clearly taken up by many pregnant women of travelling abroad for an abortion, is however very doubtful.
The likelihood is that it is only a few women who are not sufficiently informed or sufficiently funded and organised who miss out on this possibility.
With regard to the moral or religious case made against abortion, in A, B and C v Ireland (para 222) the European Court of Human Rights recalled that it had in Open Door Counselling and Dublin Well Woman v Ireland (1992) 15 EHRR 244: found that the protection afforded under Irish law to the right to life of the unborn was based on profound moral values concerning the nature of life which were reflected in the stance of the majority of the Irish people against abortion during the 1983 referendum.
The impugned restriction in that case was found to pursue the legitimate aim of the protection of morals of which the protection in Ireland of the right to life of the unborn was one aspect.
The position in Ireland was that, pursuant to the 1983 referendum, the Eighth Amendment to the Irish Constitution was passed to the effect that Ireland acknowledges the right to life of the unborn and with due respect to the equal right to life of the mother, guarantees in its laws to regard and, as far as practicable, by its laws to defend and vindicate that right.
A, B and C v Ireland shows that a constitutional choice in such terms is well capable of constituting the pursuit of a legitimate aim, even though it is not one which is shared by, or reflects any sort of consensus in, other Council of Europe States.
In A, B and C v Ireland, the Court was not persuaded that limited opinion polls put before it by the applicants were sufficiently indicative of a change in the views of the Irish people, concerning the grounds for lawful abortion in Ireland, as to displace the states opinion to the Court on the exact content of the requirements of morals in Ireland (para 226).
The position in Northern Ireland is very different.
The retention in Northern Ireland of the 1861 and 1925 Acts, without qualification, is not the result of, and has not been endorsed by, any referendum.
It reflects without much doubt a deliberate moral choice or choices in the past on an issue which is still controversial.
But the extent of the protection given to the foetus is less extensive than in Ireland.
There is no express recognition of a right, still less an equal right, to life on the part of the unborn, and the Northern Ireland legislation permits abortion to protect not only the life of the pregnant woman, but also her mental health from serious long term injury.
Further, Mr McGleenan for the Department of Justice does not argue that a foetus has a free standing right to life, but for an analysis along the lines adopted by the European Court of Human Rights in Vo v France, whereby the foetus has a potential and intrinsic value.
The issue is currently controversial for at least two reasons.
First, the Commission has been pressing the Northern Ireland Department of Justice since 2013 to present proposals for amending the law in all the areas before the Supreme Court.
The Department eventually concluded that the law should be reconsidered as a matter of policy, not, Mr McGleenan stressed, because it considered that the Convention required such reconsideration.
But it confined its October 2014 consultation paper, as well as its June 2015 paper seeking approval to draft a bill, to fatal foetal abnormality.
In February 2016 the Northern Ireland Assembly voted by 59 votes to