 by democratically elected and accountable institutions, albeit, in the case of the devolved institutions, within limits which are set by the Convention rights as given effect in our domestic law.
A process of democratic consideration of these issues has begun in Northern Ireland and has not yet been completed, as a result of the breakdown of devolved government in January 2017.
It is important that a review of these issues should be completed.
It appears from the accounts of individual cases put forward in these proceedings that there is every reason to fear that violations of the Convention rights will occur, if the arrangements in place in Northern Ireland remain as they are.
In those circumstances, these issues need to be discussed and determined in a democratic forum, which is where they pre eminently belong.
In the meantime, the courts will have to deal with any individual cases which may come before them.
But, in the present proceedings, there is no need for this court to pre empt democratic debate on changes to the law or to the arrangements for the provision of health services, or, by determining the requirements of the Convention in advance of that debate, to take the matter out of the hands of democratically accountable institutions.
LADY BLACK:
The Commissions competence to seek the relief claimed
I agree with Lord Mance that, for the reasons he gives, the Commission has no power to bring the present proceedings.
From that it would follow that the questions referred by the Attorney General for Northern Ireland should be answered in the negative and the Commissions appeal dismissed.
Despite this conclusion, I feel I should express my view as to the substance of the Commissions appeal, as other members of the court have done.
Article 3
I agree with Lord Mances view that, for the reasons that he sets out in paras 94 to 103 of his judgment, the Commissions argument that the legislation in Northern Ireland is incompatible with article 3 of the ECHR must be rejected.
Article 8:
Generally
I also agree with what Lord Mance says about article 8 in the passage of his judgment commencing at para 104 and concluding at para 121, but I do not entirely share his view in relation to the compatibility of the legislation with article 8.
He considers the law incompatible in cases where the pregnancy has resulted from rape or certain other sexual crimes, and in cases of fatal foetal abnormality, that is to say where the foetus cannot survive at all after birth or will die very shortly after delivery.
I would only wish to express the view that the law is incompatible in cases of fatal foetal abnormality.
Article 8: Cases other than fatal foetal abnormality
As to cases which do not concern fatal foetal abnormality, I find myself in agreement with Lord Reeds reasoning in relation to article 8.
He has pointed out the similarity between the arguments advanced unsuccessfully in A, B and C v Ireland, and those relied upon in the present case.
Although it is important to note that A, B and C did not concern the particular categories of pregnancy with which we are concerned, it persuades me that, in relation to pregnancies where the foetus has a non fatal abnormality or has been conceived as the result of a sexual offence, I must bring myself to accept two related propositions.
First, notwithstanding the widespread consensus (in Europe and internationally) in favour of more flexible abortion regimes, it must be accepted that there may be room for different moral viewpoints.
Secondly, it must be accepted that the balance between the protection of the life of the unborn child, the interests of society, and the rights of the pregnant woman may be struck in different ways.
In these circumstances, and given the difficulty identified by Lord Reed as to where to draw the line in accommodating the categories of case with which we have