 what would otherwise be inhuman or degrading treatment as something less than that.
The applicability of article 3 to cases of fatal foetal abnormality and rape or incest
I have already referred (in para 215 above) to the absolute nature of article 3.
That characteristic was recognised by ECtHR in Pretty v United Kingdom [2002] 35 EHRR 1.
At paras 50 52, the court said: 50.
An examination of the Courts case law indicates that article 3 has been most commonly applied in contexts in which the risk to the individual of being subjected to any of the proscribed forms of treatment emanated from intentionally inflicted acts of State agents or public authorities.
It may be described in general terms as imposing a primarily negative obligation on States to refrain from inflicting serious harm on persons within their jurisdiction.
However, in light of the fundamental importance of article 3, the Court has reserved to itself sufficient flexibility to address the application of that article in other situations that might arise. 51. In. particular, the Court has held that the obligation on the High Contracting Parties under article 1 of the Convention to secure to everyone within the jurisdiction the rights and freedoms defined in the Convention, taken together with article 3, requires States to take measures designed to ensure that individuals within their jurisdiction are not subjected to torture or inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, including such treatment administered by private individuals.
A positive obligation on the State to provide protection against inhuman or degrading treatment has been found to arise in a number of cases: see, for example the above cited A v United Kingdom where the child had been caned by his stepfather and Z v United Kingdom where four child applicants were severely abused and neglected by their parents.
It also imposes requirements on State authorities to protect the health of persons deprived of liberty. 52.
As regards the types of treatment which fall within the scope of article 3 of the Convention, the Courts case law refers to ill treatment that attains a minimum level of severity and involves actual bodily injury or intense physical or mental suffering Where treatment humiliates or debases an individual showing a lack of respect for, or diminishing, his or her human dignity or arouses feelings of fear, or inferiority capable of breaking an individuals moral and physical resistance, it may be characterised as degrading and also fall within the prohibition of article 3.
The suffering which flows from naturally occurring illness, physical or mental, may be covered by article 3, where it is, or risks being, exacerbated by treatment, whether flowing from conditions of detention, expulsion or other measures, for which the authorities can be held responsible.
The Attorney General argued that those who wished to have an abortion in Northern Ireland but were forbidden by the law from obtaining one had not been ill treated within the meaning of article 3 in that they had not been treated at all by the state.
I do not accept that argument.
At present, a girl or woman who obtains an abortion in circumstances other than those narrowly prescribed by the 1861 and 1945 Acts commits a criminal offence and is liable to prosecution.
That constitutes ill treatment in so far as imposing that sanction on women amounts to a breach of article 3.
Likewise, requiring a woman to carry to term a foetus who is doomed to die, or a foetus who is the consequence of rape or incest, when the impact on the mother is inhuman or degrading is, in every sense, treatment to which the woman is subjected by the state.
It is, moreover, treatment which because of its inhumanity or degrading effect, is in violation of article 3.
Moreover, the threat of prosecution of a doctor whose assistance in the termination of a pregnancy is sought has a