ues a legitimate aim or objective.
The one qualification that may be made relates to the nature of the Assemblys most recent vote on 10 February 2016 to reject amendments to the Justice (No 2) Bill: para 109 above.
Out of a total of 108 potential votes, I understand that most of the Ulster Unionist members (with 16 votes between them) and Alliance members (with 8 votes between them) were in favour of the amendments, while the Democratic Union Party (the DUP), the largest party (38 votes) does not appear to have rejected the amendments for reasons of inflexible moral principle, but rather because the issues demanded careful consideration from the medical professionals, practitioners, families and ethics and legal experts to ensure that sufficient and proper clarity and guidance are the hallmarks of the way forward.
It was the DUP which in these circumstances proposed the establishing of a working party as the key to a sensible, informed and appropriate way forward, with a view to its reporting in six months.
Since January 2017, any such solution has been precluded by the cessation of the Assemblys activity, and over two years have now elapsed since the vote on 10 February 2016 without any step towards a real resolution of this pressing issue.
Taking the approach of the European Court of Human Rights in A, B and C v Ireland, the focus moves to question (iii): was the interference necessary in a democratic society? Taking the more detailed approach indicated in Bank Mellat, the interference can be seen to be rationally connected with the fulfilment of the relevant aim or objective, in so far as the aim or objective is a moral one.
On the other hand, if the connection is viewed by reference to the success of the current legislation in preserving births and lives of babies who would otherwise be aborted, the connection is less readily sustained, bearing in mind the lack of up to date evidence on this point.
In August 2017 the Advertising Standards Authority rejected a complaint that a poster issued by the pro life campaign group BothLivesMatter was misleading, when it estimated at 100,000 the total number of people alive in Northern Ireland today, who would not be had the Abortion Act 1967 been extended to Northern Ireland.
That figure does not however bear or help in any way in relation to the situations of abnormality, rape and incest in issue on this appeal.
The real issue on this appeal is, on that basis, whether the interference was necessary in a democratic society, in the sense that, having regard to all the relevant matters, it struck a fair balance.
In the present context, that means a fair balance between the rights of the pregnant woman and the interests of the foetus which the community has by maintaining the 1861 and 1925 Acts determined to merit protection.
In relation to this central issue, the Supreme Court faces a fundamental question about its role in relation to that of the Northern Ireland Assembly, which has until now determined to maintain the 1861 and 1925 Acts unamended in an area where devolution has conferred on it legislative competence to amend the law.
Looked at from the perspective of the European Court of Human Rights, there is no doubt that this is a situation where that Court would afford the United Kingdom, represented in this context by the Northern Ireland Assembly, a large margin of appreciation.
That is evidenced by A, B and C v Ireland, although as pointed out in the concurring judgment of Judge Lpez Guerra, joined by Judge Casadevall in that case, the margin is not unlimited at the Strasbourg level.
Here, however, the Convention rights have been domesticated, and the position in that context is on any view different.
As Lord Hoffmann put it in In re G [