1egal framework takes no account of the circumstances that we found ourselves in.
In the normal course of events, an abortion is not something that would have occurred to me.
However, the serious condition that my daughter suffered from thrust us into a situation that no one could predict.
My daughter was bound to die before, or close to, her birth.
If she had survived, even for a short period, she may have suffered.
This tragic situation was compounded for me by the apparent inability of the medical profession to offer me a termination even in these circumstances.
If this had been available, I believe it would have diminished our suffering.
Being forced to continue with this pregnancy added to the tragedy.
We were not able to grieve for our daughter even at the time of her actual death or to start to deal with our emotions.
This was further compounded by the fact that the medical professionals could not even agree amongst themselves whether a termination was permitted.
Sarah Jane Ewart found out that she was pregnant on 15 July 2013.
On 26 September 2013, it was discovered that her baby had anencephaly.
This meant that the foetus did not have a skull; there was no bone above the eye sockets and jaw line.
There was no possibility of survival beyond birth.
Mrs Ewart asked if she could have a caesarean section.
She was told that this would not happen.
Like Mrs Topley she had to endure the ordeal of being congratulated by well wishers.
She felt unable to tell them of what she described as the awfulness of the truth.
Mrs Ewarts gynaecologist was so concerned about the possibility that, if she gave Mrs Ewart advice as to where she might go to seek help in relation to the termination of her pregnancy, she (the gynaecologist) would be exposed to the risk of prosecution, it was impossible for her to offer that advice.
Mrs Ewarts general medical practitioner was similarly reluctant to advise.
Mrs Ewarts experience of the worry associated with her condition; the indignity she felt in having to travel to England to have her pregnancy terminated; the traumatic experience of the termination; and her dependence on her mother and husband throughout this ordeal are all movingly and graphically described in her witness statement.
The prolonged torment that she had to suffer is pitifully recounted by her.
Her fear of becoming pregnant with another anencephalic baby, and having to undergo a similar tribulation to that which she suffered in 2013, is entirely understandable and incontestably obvious.
Denise Phelan and her husband discovered in November 2015 that they were expecting their first child.
The pregnancy was planned and the baby was, in Mrs Phelans words, very much wanted.
In her affidavit she has described the horror of her experience during her pregnancy; the nightmare of discovering that her baby suffered from the most grievous condition; the suffering that she had to endure while waiting for the birth of the child, doomed to die (in fact her baby girl died five days before birth); the frustration and dismay at her and her husbands inability to access medical assistance for their plight; and the dreadful torment that they both had to bear after the baby was delivered stillborn.
The courage of these women in giving unsparing accounts of their experiences is wholly admirable.
It is impossible not to feel profound sympathy for their plight and for the ordeal that each of them has had to endure.
Admiration and sympathy do not provide an answer to the complex questions which arise on this appeal, however.
A dispassionate analysis of those questions is required.
But the nature of their suffering and the trauma of their experiences are by no means irrelevant to the unravelling and resolution of the issues to which this appeal gives rise.
(b) Pregnancy because of rape