 Law Commission found that two involved step fathers and step daughters, and that, of the remaining 14, 11 concerned father daughter incest, two concerned brother sister incest, and one uncle niece incest.
The present issue is whether a blanket prohibition of abortion in cases of incest is proportionate.
In the light of the factors I have identified, I have no doubt that the only answer is that it is not.
The most typical cases of abortion involve exploitative relationships with young or younger female relatives.
The agony of having to carry a child to birth, and to have a potential responsibility for, and lifelong relationship with, the child thereafter, against the mothers will, cannot be justified.
The same considerations that I have identified in paras 122, 125 and 126 above apply.
Similar considerations to those which I have identified in relation to rape in para 127 above also apply.
There can be exceptional cases, such as perhaps Stbing, where such considerations do not apply with the same force, but they cannot justify a law which is clearly disproportionate in many, indeed typical, instances of incest.
Serious foetal abnormality
I have up to this point left on one side cases of serious foetal abnormality, in respect of which the Commission also seeks relief, by way of a declaration of incompatibility.
Like Horner J (para 166), I see the position here as different.
The foetus has the potential to develop into a child though it will have to cope with a mental and/or physical disability.
There can also be additional stresses and strains which may have serious effects upon the whole family, as Hale LJ said in Parkinson (para 90).
The law is, as she also said at para 91, able to distinguish between the needs of ordinary children and the special needs of a disabled child, and to cater for the latter in terms of care and facilities or, in an appropriate case, by way of damages.
But in principle a disabled child should be treated as having exactly the same worth in human terms as a non disabled child, save to the extent that additional costs due to the disability may be identified and recovered in damages from someone negligently responsible for causing the disability: Parkinson, para 90.
This is also the consistent theme of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, expressing concerns about the stigmatising of persons with disabilities as living a life of less value than that of others, and about the termination of pregnancy at any stage on the basis of foetal abnormality, and recommending States to amend their abortion laws accordingly (CRPD/C/GBR/CO/1).
If this embraces fatal foetal abnormality, I cannot go so far.
But, in relation to disability, I consider that the Committee has a powerful point.
Further, although the Abortion Act 1967 itself distinguishes children who would be seriously handicapped from others, this is in the context of a law which entrusts that judgment to the opinion of two registered medical practitioners formed in good faith: section 1.
In the result, I share Horner Js view that it is not possible to impugn, as disproportionate and so incompatible with article 8, legislation which prohibits abortion of a foetus diagnosed as likely to be seriously disabled.
Article 14
We were addressed separately on the question whether the present Northern Irish law involves discrimination against women.
The case made was that the prohibition of abortion necessarily or at least primarily affects women, not men, that it is not necessary to find any comparator and that gender based discrimination is a suspect ground, carrying a heavy burden to justify.
In view of the conclusions which I have come to on article 8, I do not find it necessary or propose to address this topic.
Conclusion
I return to the question whether a positive