 approach.
Vo v France (2004) 40 EHRR 12 was concerned with a case where a doctor by negligence had caused the termination of a pregnancy at the 20 to 24 weeks stage.
The doctor had been acquitted of causing unintentional harm on the ground that the foetus was not at that stage a person.
Complaint was made that this involved a breach of article 2.
The European Court of Human Rights after considering the previous case law said that, in the circumstances examined to date, under various national laws on abortion, the unborn child is not regarded as a person, directly protected by article 2.
However, it went on to leave open the possibility that in certain circumstances certain safeguards might be extended to the unborn child (para 80).
In the context of the new situation before it, no single answer could be given to the question when life begins and who is a person.
The question was within each states margin of appreciation (para 82).
But, so far as there was a consensus, it was only that the foetus/embryo belonged to the human race and had the potential to develop into a full person (para 84).
In A, B and C v Ireland (2010) 53 EHRR 13, the issue was whether the Irish prohibition on abortion was compatible with the Convention.
The prohibition applied save where necessary to save the mothers life, so obliging pregnant mothers fearing for their health or well being if their pregnancy continued to travel to England for an abortion.
The Court at para 213 referred to Vo v France in support of a dictum that the womans right to respect for her private life must be weighed against other competing rights and freedoms involved including those of the unborn child.
That is a more open ended proposition, but at para 222 the Court repeated that it had been confirmed by the Courts finding in .
Vo v France that it was neither desirable nor possible to answer the question of whether the unborn was a person for the purposes of article 2 of the Convention.
In the light of this and of the Courts case law generally, the Court cannot in para 213 be read as equating the interests of an unborn child with those of the mother in the context of abortion.
Article 3
The Commissions primary case is that the 1861 and 1925 Acts infringe article 3.
Article 3 contains an unqualified or absolute prohibition of torture and of inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
The European Court of Human Rights explained the concept in Gfgen v Germany (2010) 52 EHRR 1, para 88 in these terms: In order for ill treatment to fall within the scope of article 3, it must attain a minimum level of severity.
The assessment of this minimum depends on all the circumstances of the case, such as the duration of the treatment, its physical or mental effects and, in some cases, the sex, age, and state of health of the victim.
Further factors include the purpose for which the treatment was inflicted together with the intention or motivation behind it, as well as its context, such as an atmosphere of heightened tension and emotions.
Again, it is apparent that the exercise which the Commission invites of judging the general incompatibility of legislation with article 3 sits uneasily with the case by case and contextual approach with which both the European Court of Human Rights and domestic courts are more familiar under article 3.
The European Court of Human Rights has considered article 3 in the context of abortion in a number of cases.
A, B and C v Ireland is a useful starting point, although it did not concern foetal abnormality, rape or incest.
The three applicants, all resident in Ireland, each travelled to England for an abortion, believing that they had no