, where primary legislation is incompatible with Convention rights, enables the courts to make a declaration to that effect.
It has also enacted provisions in the devolution statutes under which legislation is outside the legislative competence of the devolved legislatures if it is incompatible with Convention rights, and the devolved administrations have no power to do any act which is incompatible with Convention rights: see, in relation to Northern Ireland, sections 6(2)(c) and 24(1)(a) of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.
The Convention rights include the right not to be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment, under article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and the right to respect for private and family life, under article 8.
The article 3 right, like the right to life under article 2, and the prohibition on slavery under article 4, is expressed in absolute terms.
The article 8 right, like the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, the right to freedom of expression, the right to freedom of assembly and association, and the right to freedom to marry, under articles 9 to 12 respectively, is expressed in terms which allow for restrictions: it is subject to such interferences as are in accordance with the law and are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic well being of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
Like a number of other Convention rights, it thus allows scope for contention as to how it is to be balanced with other competing interests.
The distinction between absolute and qualified rights is fundamental to the operation of the Convention.
The absolute rights reflect unconditional moral imperatives which are owed to individuals simply as human beings: not to kill them other than in certain specific situations, not to torture them, not to subject them to inhuman or degrading treatment, and not to hold them in slavery.
Although the content of these rights is nuanced, and they might even be said to be subject, in substance, to certain qualifications, they are not in principle amenable to balancing against other interests.
There is no scope for their being restricted by democratic policy choices.
They are not issues on which the Convention accepts that there is scope for democratic debate.
The courts task is not to assess the proportionality of murder, torture or enslavement, but to secure that the right to be protected against such treatment is respected.
There is therefore, in principle, no room for the European Court of Human Rights to defer to the judgement of national authorities on the question whether conduct is in breach of the substantive, negative, obligations imposed by an absolute provision such as article 3: the question falls outside the scope of the principle of subsidiarity.
The threshold for finding a breach of article 3 is correspondingly high: the court has repeatedly emphasised that ill treatment has to attain a minimum level of severity before it can be regarded as falling within the ambit of the article.
The same high threshold applies when article 3 is applied by national courts.
Thus, under article 3, there is in principle no scope for constitutional deference to the judgement of democratic institutions, but it is only where the stringent requirements of the article are satisfied that the courts will adopt such an uncompromising approach.
The qualified rights are essentially different.
They belong to individuals as social beings, and are subject to such limitations as are justifiable in the society in which they live.
The Conventions acceptance that they are subject to restrictions that are necessary in a democratic society not just in any democratic society, but specifically in the particular society in question opens the door to democratic policy choices.
The Convention accepts that there