clusions on article 3
I consider that the law on abortion in Northern Ireland is incompatible with the article 3 rights of the girls and women of that country who are pregnant with foetuses which have a fatal abnormality or who are pregnant as a result of rape or incest.
I would make a declaration of incompatibility under section 4 HRA to that effect.
Article 8
Article 8 of ECHR provides: 1.
Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence. 2.
There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise of this right except such as is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic well being of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
It is accepted that the Acts of 1861 and 1945 interfere with womens rights under article 8.
The single issue on this aspect of the case is whether that interference is justified.
It is also accepted that it is for the state to establish that justification.
The first question to be asked is whether the interference is in accordance with the law.
If it is, as is now well established, examination of whether the interference with a qualified Convention right is justified requires a court to follow a four stage process.
Those four stages were set out by Lord Wilson in R (Aguilar Quila) v Secretary of State for the Home Department (AIRE Centre intervening) [2012] 1 AC 621, para 45.
They are (a) is the legislative objective sufficiently important to justify limiting a fundamental right?; (b) are the measures which have been designed to meet it rationally connected to it?; (c) are they no more than are necessary to accomplish it?; (d) do they strike a fair balance between the rights of the individual and the interests of the community? (See also Lord Reed at para 75 of Bank Mellat v HM Treasury (No 2) [2014] AC 700 and Lord Sumption in the same case at para 20)
In accordance with the law
Following the hearing of this case before the Court of Appeal, it appears that the Lord Chief Justice sought further submissions on the meaning to be given to the word unlawfully in section 58 of the 1861 Act.
In NIHRCs printed case, at para 116, it is said that the Department, in its reply to that request, stated at para 20 that the Bourne test does not afford sufficient clarity or certainty of interpretation.
NIHRC states that, if this is correct, it must follow that the lack of clarity and certainty means that the criminalisation of abortion in these circumstances is not in accordance with the law as required by article 8(2): Sunday Times v United Kingdom (1979) 2 EHRR 245, para 49.
Ms Gallagher QC, on behalf of the intervener, Humanists UK, has suggested that the limited qualification to the prohibitions in sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act provided under section 25 of the 1945 Act, as interpreted in Bourne and affirmed in the FPANI case, is insufficiently precise and accessible for Northern Irish women with fatal foetal abnormality pregnancies.
Nor was it, she suggested, sufficiently clear to allow medical professionals to decide whether they might be able provide a lawful abortion in their own jurisdiction.
She claimed that the lack of clarity was underscored by the Lord Chief Justices proposed extension of the Bourne defence.
It is to be remembered, of course, that both Gillen and Weather