) does not apply to the Commission. (2B) In relation to the Commissions instituting, or intervening in, human rights proceedings (a) the Commission need not be a victim or potential victim of the unlawful act to which the proceedings relate, section 7(3) and (4) of the Human Rights Act (b) 1998 (c 42) (breach of Convention rights: sufficient interest, &c) shall not apply, (c) be one or more victims of the unlawful act, and (d) no award of damages may be made to the Commission (whether or not the exception in section 8(3) of that Act applies).
the Commission may act only if there is or would
In circumstances in which the requirement that NIHRC be a victim was removed by this new provision, it would be surprising that the Commission should continue to be obliged to identify a particular victim before it could bring proceedings concerning the incompatibility of an item of legislation with ECHR.
I shall deal with this argument in more detail below but, first, it should be noted that the Attorney General for Northern Ireland also argues that, even if section 4 of HRA were to be regarded as creating a new cause of action, NIHRC is explicitly prevented by section 71(2B) and (2C) (as to which see para 179 below) from challenging primary legislation in the absence of a specific unlawful act.
Thus, not only must there be a specific victim, an identified unlawful act must have been perpetrated.
I am of the clear view that section 71(2B) does not confine the Commissions opportunity to act to circumstances where a specific act directed to a particular individual is identified.
Although that is, arguably, a possible theoretical interpretation of the provision, its adoption would run directly counter to the spirit of the amendment.
Its purpose must surely have been to ensure that the Commission could challenge legislation which it perceived to be incompatible with the Convention.
That conclusion is reinforced by a consideration of section 71(2B)(c).
Section 71(2B)(c) provides that the Commission may only act if there is or would be one or more victims.
The Commissions power to act on behalf of potential victims and, importantly, to act pre emptively would be robbed of its essence if unlawful act was interpreted in the narrow, literal sense.
The amendment to the NIA was made in order to make it easier for NIHRC to institute HRA proceedings.
In light of the clear intention to widen NIHRCs powers, it would be illogical that these would be restricted by the imposition of a requirement that there be a particular, identified unlawful act.
Section 71(2C) provides: (2C) For the purposes of subsection (2B) human rights proceedings means proceedings (a) which rely (wholly or partly) on section 7(1)(b) of the Human Rights Act (i) 1998, or (ii) an expression used in subsection (2B) and in (b) section 7 of the Human Rights Act 1998 has the same meaning in subsection (2B) as in section 7.
section 69(5)(b) of this Act, and
Paragraph 8 of the Explanatory Notes to the 2007 Act (although the Notes do not form part of the Act and were not endorsed by Parliament) is illuminating on the question of whether a victim needs to be identified.
In material part, it reads: This Act makes provision to extend the powers of the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission It amends the Northern Ireland Act 1998 by granting powers to the Commission to institute judicial proceedings in the Commissions own right, and when doing so to