 effect a lawful arrest or to prevent the (a) (b) escape of a person lawfully detained; in action lawfully taken for the purpose of quelling a riot or insurrection. 3.
Prohibition of torture.
No one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. 8.
Right to respect for private and family life. 1.
Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence. 2.
There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise of this right except such as is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic well being of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
Prohibition of discrimination. 14.
The enjoyment of the rights and freedoms set forth in this Convention shall be secured without discrimination on any ground such as sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, association with a national minority, property, birth or other status.
The issue on this appeal is whether the existing law in Northern Ireland is compatible with these articles of the Convention in the categories of case identified in paras 42 and 67 above.
During the submissions made by Ms Caoilfhionn Gallagher QC for Humanists UK as interveners, a submission was made that the existing law, interpreted in accordance with R v Bourne, was generally too imprecise to be in accordance with the law within article 8.
That is a submission which lies outside the scope of the present appeal.
It would require revisiting the territory covered in the FPANI case and, quite probably, considering what has occurred in the light of whatever declarations were made in that case.
That is not what the present appeal has been or is about.
Even if there proved to be force in the point made by Ms Gallagher, it could at best only lead to a conclusion that the legal principles should be further clarified, whether by the court or the department or by legislative amendment.
The Abortion Act 1967 applicable in the rest of the United Kingdom demonstrates the feasibility of further legislative clarification.
When considering the compatibility in the abstract of the current Northern Ireland legislation with any particular Convention right, it is not enough to show that, as a matter of practice or when applied in the light of administrative guidance, legislation has proved prone to give rise to unjustified infringement of a Convention right.
The relevant question is whether the legislation itself is capable of being operated in a manner which is compatible with that right, or, putting the same point the other way around, whether it is bound in a legally significant number of cases to lead to unjustified infringement of the right.
That is how Lady Hale DPSC expressed the test in The Christian Institute v The Lord Advocate [2016] SLT 805, para 88.
She cited her own previous words in R (Ali) and R (Bibi) v Secretary of State for the Home Department [2015] 1 WLR 5055, para 2, where she rightly emphasised that the test sets a complainant a difficult task and at para 6 she also cited words of Lord Hodge at para 69, on which I wish to make this observation.
Lord Hodge stated in para 69 that The court would not be entitled to strike down the Immigration Rule under consideration in that case unless satisfied that it was incapable of being operated in a proportionate way and so was inherently unjustified in all or nearly all cases.
In support, Lord Hodge cited a dictum of Aikens LJ, giving the only reasoned judgment in R