 or incest
Dawn Purvis is the programme director of Marie Stopes International in Northern Ireland (MSNI).
This is a non profit making organisation which works in about forty countries providing sexual and reproductive health services.
MSNI opened a clinic in Belfast in October 2012.
It offers a range of services including advice on methods of contraception, information and support for women dealing with an unplanned pregnancy, as well as access to safe and legal abortion services and post abortion care.
In an affidavit made for the purposes of these proceedings, Ms Purvis described the case of a woman who had consulted MSNI after having been raped by her partner.
He refused to allow her to use any form of contraception.
She was fearful that he would react violently if he discovered that she was pregnant and was seeking an abortion.
Her general medical practitioner refused to refer her to any health care provider, observing simply that abortion was illegal in Northern Ireland.
When this woman sought help from MSNI, it was decided that she could not qualify for an abortion under the current law.
She was therefore obliged to leave Northern Ireland in order to obtain an abortion elsewhere.
Ms Purvis described another case: that of a child less than 13 years old, who came to MSNI, having become pregnant as a result of sexual abuse by a member of her family.
The girl and the relative who accompanied her to MSNI believed that she could be treated in Northern Ireland.
She had never been outside that country before and, unsurprisingly, was frightened and distressed when told that she would have to travel to England.
MSNI provided support and the child had a termination of her pregnancy carried out away from Northern Ireland.
Fortunately, she was accompanied by an adult to the place where that procedure occurred but it is not difficult to imagine how traumatic the experience must have been for her.
Mara Clarke is the director of the Abortion Support Network (ASN) in Coventry.
Her organisation has helped a number of women and girls from Northern Ireland who have sought their assistance after becoming pregnant as a result of rape.
In an affidavit of 2 February 2015, she described the distressing circumstances of four women who had been sexually assaulted and had been made pregnant.
The accounts of the suffering of these women and, in some cases, the privations which their families had to endure are distressing in the extreme.
I will refer only to one.
The victim had been beaten and raped by a group of men.
She discovered that she was pregnant.
Despite the fact that a number of organisations in Northern Ireland became aware of her predicament, she was offered no support or help.
She was able to raise only 100 towards the cost of travelling to England to obtain an abortion.
ASN made her a grant of 1,200 to meet the additional costs of travelling, having the procedure performed and hotel accommodation.
Some considerable time later, having seen a television programme about their work, she wrote to ASN to thank them for their help, adding, poignantly, that, without it, she would be dead, either by her own hand, or by the hands of those who had raped and beaten her.
The Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission (described hereafter as NIHRC or the Commission), the appellant in these proceedings, has claimed that the experiences of these individuals are typical of those that many women and girls in Northern Ireland have been forced to undergo.
NIHRC also claims that the reaction of medical practitioners and their reluctance to offer any assistance for fear of prosecution under the current law are also entirely typical.
Those claims have not been disputed by the respondents or any of the interveners in the appeal.
Again, this is not surprising in light of the current state of the law in relation to abortion in Northern Ireland.
The current law
Section 58 of the Offences