 of the European Convention on Human Rights so far as they relate to access to termination of pregnancy services for women with pregnancies involving a serious malformation of the foetus or pregnancy as a result of rape or incest; b. A declaration that, notwithstanding the provisions of the above sections, women in Northern Ireland may lawfully access termination of pregnancy services within Northern Ireland in cases of serious malformation of the foetus or rape or incest; c. A declaration that the rights of women in Northern Ireland with a diagnosis of serious malformation of the foetus or who are pregnant as a result of such rape or incest are breached by the above sections; and/or d. such further or other relief as the Court might think appropriate.
The declarations sought to focus on three broad situations: serious malformation of the foetus; rape; and incest.
In this judgment, I shall divide the first into fatal foetal abnormality and serious (but not fatal) foetal abnormality.
The expert evidence before the judge indicated that doctors are well capable of identifying cases of fatal foetal abnormality, that is cases where the foetus will die in the womb or during or very shortly after birth.
As to rape, it was made clear during the course of submissions before the Supreme Court, that the Commission, when commencing these proceedings, had in mind situations in which, because a child was under the age of 13, consent cannot in law be given, but had not focused on, for example, sexual offences (not described in law as rape) committed against children aged 13 or more, but under the age of 16.
I return to this aspect in paras 73 and 131 below.
As to incest, there was again no detailed examination of the offence(s) in question.
There is no longer any offence called, in law rather than colloquially, incest.
Since 2008, the relevant law is found in articles 32 to 36 and 68 to 69 of the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008, mirroring sections 25 to 29 and 64 to 65 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 in England and Wales.
These articles introduce a very wide range of penetrative offences involving related persons, but it is only those which can lead to pregnancy which are presently relevant.
In this context, article 32 contains offences under the head Sexual activity with a child family member.
This is capable of commission where the child family member (B) is either under 18, and is someone who the person committing the offence (A) does not reasonably believe to be 18 or over, or is under 13.
The relevant family relationships are defined in section 34, and the maximum punishment on conviction on indictment of an offence involving penetration of the vagina is up to 14 years.
Article 68 contains the offence of Sex with an adult relative: penetration, which may, inter alia, be committed when a person aged 16 or over (A) penetrates the vagina of (B) aged 18 or over.
Article 69 contains the offence of Sex with an adult relative: consenting to penetration, which may be committed where A (aged 18 or over) penetrates the vagina of B (aged 16 or over) with Bs consent.
Articles 68 and 69 have their own definition of the prohibited relationships, and the maximum sentence on conviction of indictment is in each case up to two years.
For convenience, I shall in this judgment continue to use the colloquial term incest to refer to all three offences, although it is clear that the legislator has identified a significant general difference between offences under article 32 involving a child family member on the one hand and offences under articles 68 and 69 involving adults.
I shall consider