ant journalists sought an assurance that its publication would not lead to their being prosecuted.
The Attorney General refused to give that assurance.
The claimants original complaint was that the Attorney General had acted contrary to section 6(1) HRA by refusing to confirm that no prosecution would be brought if articles advocating republicanism were published in the Guardian.
They launched judicial review proceedings under section 7(1)(a) of HRA, complaining of a breach of section 6(1) of HRA (which makes it unlawful for a public authority to act in a way which is incompatible with a Convention right), and in the alternative seeking a declaration pursuant to section 3 of HRA as to the scope of application of section 3 of the 1848 Act, or a declaration of incompatibility pursuant to section 4 HRA.
The section 6(1) HRA complaint failed at first instance but the Court of Appeal permitted the case to proceed as an amended claim for a declaration that section 3 of the 1848 Act should be read down by the insertion of words expressly limiting its application to situations where there were acts of force or constraint or other unlawful means: [2002] EWCA Civ 397, paras 16 17, 25 and 28.
When, therefore, the case came before the House of Lords it was for a declaration under section 3 of HRA (which requires courts to read and give effect to legislation in a way that is compatible with Convention rights, in so far as that is possible) and, alternatively for a declaration of incompatibility under section 4.
There was no challenge to any act of a public authority as being contrary to section 6 of HRA.
The case did not proceed under section 7 of HRA, therefore.
Lord Steyn made it clear that, in those circumstances, the requirement in section 7, that there be a victim, did not have to be satisfied para 21.
Lord Scott and Lord Walker agreed with this analysis.
In the event, the House of Lords in Rusbridger refused to grant the relief sought but that was because the litigation served no practical purpose and had been unnecessary para 28.
The important point to take from that case, however, in so far as the present appeal is concerned, is that it recognised a distinct form of proceeding under sections 3 and 4 of HRA which did not require victim status to be established.
It was a principal feature of the respondents case in the present appeal that section 4 of HRA created no new or freestanding cause of action and that it was merely a remedies provision.
That submission is clearly wrong.
It fails to recognise the two distinct mechanisms for enforcing Convention rights and is inconsistent with Rusbridger.
In Ghaidan v Godin Mendoza [2004] 2 AC 557 a claim for possession of a flat owned by Mr Ghaidan was made.
It was resisted on the basis that the defendant had succeeded to a secure tenancy as the surviving spouse of the original tenant.
The House of Lords applied section 3(1) HRA to interpret the relevant provisions of the Rent Act 1977 so that they benefited same sex as well as opposite sex couples.
Lord Millett, dissenting on the application of section 3(1), would nevertheless have considered making a declaration of incompatibility pursuant to section 4 HRA (para 55).
In this case, again, there was no section 6(1) challenge to an act of a public authority.
The relevant obligation was either section 3 (in the case of the majority) or section 4 (according to Lord Millett).
It was not deemed necessary that there be a victim.
Likewise, in Wilson v First County Trust