) is not present in this much more limited instance.
I am satisfied, therefore that the maintenance of sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act and section 25 of the 1945 Act in their present form constitutes a breach of article 8 of ECHR and would make a declaration of incompatibility in respect of those provisions in cases involving fatal foetal abnormality or where pregnancy has resulted from rape or incest.
International law and standards
In the High Court and the Court of Appeal NIHRC relied on a number of international treaties and judgments, decisions and general statements of treaty bodies.
Horner J dealt with these in a section of his judgment entitled International Law and Obligations between paras 59 and 71.
Again, I find myself in agreement with the judge in his observations and I do not repeat them.
The Court of Appeal did not deal with these arguments.
Although the traditional and orthodox view is that courts do not apply unincorporated international treaties (JH Rayner (Mincing Lane) Ltd v Department of Trade and Industry [1990] 2 AC 418, per Lord Oliver at 499 and R (Miller) v Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union [2018] AC 61), as Lord Hughes stated in R (SG) v Secretary of State for Work and Pensions (Child Poverty Action Group intervening) [2015] 1 WLR 1449, para 137, such treaties may be relevant in a number of ways.
NIHRC relies on the third of these, namely, where the court is applying ECHR via the HRA.
As Lord Hughes observed, the ECtHR has accepted that, in appropriate cases, the Convention should be interpreted in the light of generally accepted international law in the same field.
Similar propositions are to be found in Convention jurisprudence, most notably, Demir v Turkey (2008) 48 EHRR 1272, para 69; Neulinger v Switzerland (2010) 54 EHRR 31, para 131.
The international conventions on which the Commission principally relied were the 1979 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), the United Nations Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment and Punishment (UNCAT), the Council of Europe (CoE) European Social Charter (ESC) and Resolution 1607 (2008) and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC).
The Commission has cited a number of authorities in which ECtHR has relied on conclusions of the CEDAW committee, the ICCPR committee, UNCAT, ESC and UNCRC.
It is unnecessary for me to discuss those decisions, in light of the view that I have formed on the compatibility of the impugned legislative provisions.
It is sufficient to record that the conclusion that the current law in Northern Ireland on abortion, as it affects fatal foetal abnormality and pregnancy as a result of rape and incest is incompatible with the Convention, is in harmony with many of those decisions.
I express no view (because it is not necessary to do so) on the recent decisions of the United Nations Human Rights Committee in Mellet v Ireland (9 June 2016) and Whelan v Ireland (17 March 2017).
The status of those decisions and their relevance in domestic proceedings such as these are far from straightforward subjects.
I consider it prudent to defer consideration of those matters to a case where they are more directly in issue.
Serious malformation of the foetus
In para 64 et seq of his judgment, Horner J gave a number of reasons for refusing to hold that the un