 courts should not, at least at that juncture, interfere.
On the present appeal, there is in law no question of a balance being struck between the interests of two different living persons.
The unborn foetus is not in law a person, although its potential must be respected.
In addition, the current legislation already recognises important limitations on the interests and protection of the unborn foetus.
It permits abortion of a healthy foetus in circumstances where the mothers life would be at risk or where she would suffer serious long term damage to her physical or psychological health.
There is therefore no question of any absolute protection of even a healthy foetus.
The Northern Ireland position is in that respect also more nuanced than the Irish position considered in A, B and C v Ireland, where the profound moral views identified by the European Court of Human Rights subordinated the interests of the unborn foetus in only one situation, namely where the pregnant womans life would otherwise be compromised.
A further difference is that Nicklinson was decided against a background where the attitude maintained by the United Kingdom Parliament reflected a similar attitude across almost the whole of the rest of Europe.
Northern Ireland is, in contrast, almost alone in the strictness of its current law, with Irelands even stricter regime having been reconsidered in the referendum held on 25 May 2018, in which the people of that country voted by a large majority (66.4%) to replace the Eighth Amendment of the Irish Constitution, effected in 1983 (which had, as already stated, affirmed the right to life of the unborn, and guaranteed, with due regard to the equal right to life of the mother, to respect and, as far as practicable, but its laws to defend and vindicate that right, by the simple words: Provision may be made by law for the regulation of termination of pregnancy.
Under the Eighth Amendment, prior to such replacement, and in the light of Irish Supreme Court decision in Attorney General v X [1992] IESC 1 (a case of pregnancy following rape) and the Protection of Life during Pregnancy Act 2013, abortions were only permissible where there was a real and substantial risk to the womans life (including by suicide).
None of this of course means axiomatically that the Northern Irish position may not be justifiable.
The margin of appreciation has its domestic homologue in the respect due to the decisions of a representative legislature and a democratic government within the discretionary area of judgment accorded to those bodies, which I mentioned in In re G (para 130).
But the close ties between the different parts and peoples of the United Kingdom make it appropriate to examine the justification for the differences in this area with care.
One might think that this would also apply as between peoples living and able freely to interchange with each other on the same island.
In the light of the above, it is, I think, appropriate to examine the substantive position in relation to the present prohibition before returning to the question whether the Supreme Court should express its own view on the proportionality of the prohibition, rather than leaving it to the Northern Ireland Assembly to complete its consideration of the matter, when and if it resumes operations.
I start with cases of fatal foetal abnormality, and identify in this context a number of considerations.
Fatal foetal abnormality
First, the present position in Northern Ireland is, as I have pointed out, not an absolutist, but a qualified, one.
The interests of even the entirely viable foetus are already subordinated not simply to the life, but also to the maintenance, in substance, of the long term physical and psychological health, of the pregnant woman.
Second, and in contrast, a pregnant woman is in Northern Ireland refused an abortion of a foetus which can be and has been diagnosed definitively as suffering