This has proved an unusually difficult case to resolve.
Not only are the substantive issues, relating to the compatibility of abortion law in Northern Ireland with articles 3 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (the ECHR or the Convention), of considerable depth and sensitivity; but there is also the procedural issue raised by the Attorney General for Northern Ireland, who challenges the standing of the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission (NIHRC) to bring these proceedings.
The court is divided on both questions, but in different ways.
On the substantive compatibility issues, a majority Lord Mance, Lord Kerr, Lord Wilson and I hold that the current law is incompatible with the right to respect for private and family life, guaranteed by article 8 of the Convention, insofar as it prohibits abortion in cases of rape, incest and fatal foetal abnormality.
Lady Black agrees with that holding in the case of fatal foetal abnormality.
Lord Kerr and Lord Wilson also hold that it is incompatible with the right not to be subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment, guaranteed by article 3 of the Convention.
Lord Reed and
Lord Lloyd Jones hold that the law is not incompatible with either article 8 or article
On the procedural issue, a majority Lord Mance, Lord Reed, Lady Black and Lord Lloyd Jones hold that the NIHRC does not have standing to bring these proceedings and accordingly that this court has no jurisdiction to make a declaration of incompatibility to reflect the majority view on the compatibility issues.
A minority Lord Kerr, Lord Wilson and I hold that the NIHRC does have standing and would have made a declaration of incompatibility.
In these unusual circumstances, it is not possible to follow our usual practice and identify a single lead judgment which represents the majority view on all issues.
We have therefore decided to revert to the previous practice of the appellate committee of the House of Lords and print the judgments in order of seniority.
It is for that reason only that my judgment comes first.
Far more substantial judgments on all issues follow from Lord Mance and Lord Kerr.
Introduction
The substantive questions in this case are legal issues specifically related to the implementation in UK law, by the Human Rights Act 1998 (HRA), of the ECHR, which in turn has to be interpreted in the light of other international treaties to which the UK is a party, in this case the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women 1979 (CEDAW) and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2006 (CRPD).
Moral and political issues, important though they undoubtedly are, are relevant only to the extent that they are relevant to the legal issues which have to be resolved.
The starting point for any discussion of the legal issues has to be the right of all human beings, male and female, to decide what shall be done with their own bodies.
This right has long been recognised by the common law: it is the reason why consent is needed for invasive medical treatment however well intentioned: see Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board (General Medical Council intervening) [2015] AC 1430.
It is also recognised by the ECHR: see Pretty v United Kingdom (2002) 35 EHRR 1, where it was said that the notion of personal autonomy is an important principle underlying the interpretation of its guarantees (para 61).
For many women, becoming pregnant is an expression of that autonomy, the fulfilment of a deep felt desire.
But for those women who become pregnant, or who are obliged to carry a pregnancy to term, against their will there can be few greater invasions of their autonomy and bodily integrity.
The point is vividly made in Professor Thomsons famous article (A Defence of Abortion, reprinted in