up LJJ disagreed with the Lord Chief Justices analysis on this point and none of the parties to the appeal has sought to advance it.
Nor did they apparently make submissions to that effect before the Court of Appeal.
For the reasons that I have given, I do not consider that the proposed extension to Bourne is feasible and I would therefore not be prepared to hold that a lack of certainty has been introduced by the Lord Chief Justices proposal.
One might observe, however, that the formula used by Macnaghten J does not lend itself to ready, confident definition.
What is meant by a physical and mental wreck? Would contemporary thinking on that term accord with what it was understood to mean in 1938? There must be some question, at least, therefore, as to whether the law is sufficiently clear and accessible to women seeking abortion in Northern Ireland and to those medical practitioners from whom abortions are sought. Since this issue was not widely canvassed on the hearing of the appeal and since it is unnecessary for me to reach a final view on it in order to decide the appellants claim that the 1861 and 1945 Acts are in breach of article 8, I say nothing more on the subject.
Legitimate aim
Both the Department of Justice and the Attorney General have expressed in terms of some generality what the legitimate aim is that the relevant sections of the 1861 and 1945 Acts are designed to achieve.
They have said that that aim is the protection of the unborn child.
This was refined somewhat in the printed case of the Attorney General which, when challenging Weatherup LJs judgment on the point, suggested that the legitimate aim was the protection of the unborn childs life to the extent possible without significant and enduring damage to the life or health of the mother para 79.
Horner J accepted that the protection of the unborn child was a legitimate aim so long as the foetus was viable.
Even if there was a prospect that the child would suffer disability after birth, it was still a legitimate aim to afford him or her protection.
The judge considered, however, that prohibition on the termination of a pregnancy where the foetus [was] doomed to die because a fatal abnormality [rendered him or her] incapable of an existence independent of the mothers womb was not a legitimate aim para 148 of his judgment.
Morgan LCJ did not expressly articulate the legitimate aim at stake in this case but referred to that identified by the ECtHR in A, B and C v Ireland which he stated was the protection of morals of which the protection in Ireland of the right to life of the unborn was one aspect para 67 of the Lord Chief Justices judgment.
Gillen LJ considered that this statement encapsulated the legitimate aim in the present case.
The legitimate aim was, he said, the protection of morals in this jurisdiction of which the protection of the right to life of the unborn child is one aspect para 102.
Weatherup LJ stated that the avowed legitimate aim was the protection of the unborn child, based on the moral view that the unborn child requires protection para 144.
The Lord Chief Justice and Gillen LJ considered that the protection of the unborn child as an aspect of the protection of morals was a legitimate aim.
As I discuss in the next paras, Weatherup LJ was, at least, doubtful about that proposition.
Weatherup LJ pointed out that, where the existing law permits the termination of a pregnancy where the foetus is healthy, provided there is sufficient threat to the long term health of the mother, the rationale for forbidding the abortion of a foetus which has no prospect of survival is not easy to find para 167 where he said: The evidence submitted on behalf of the respondent does not address the particular character of the legitimate aim of the restrictions by