 that the foetus she was carrying might have a malformation.
Two subsequent scans confirmed the possibility that the foetus was malformed.
Throughout March 2002 the applicant sought, without success, to obtain genetic tests or an abortion.
Eventually, on 21 March 2002 a scan confirmed that the foetus was malformed.
The applicant had an amniocentesis on 26 March 2002.
She was then 23 weeks pregnant.
She did not receive the results until 9 April.
It was revealed that the foetus had Turner syndrome.
The applicant thereafter requested an abortion, but that request was refused because under the applicable domestic law, the last point at which an abortion could be undertaken on the basis of foetal abnormality was 24 weeks, and that time limit had expired.
ECtHR held that there had been a violation of article 3.
In para 150, the court gave a useful definition of degrading treatment: Treatment has been considered degrading when it was such as to arouse in victims feelings of fear, anguish and inferiority capable of humiliating and debasing them [Iwanczuk v Poland (2004) 38 EHRR 8 at para 51; and Wikiorko v Poland (14612/02) March 31, 2009 at para 45].
It is, of course, the case that RR was entitled to seek an abortion under the law of Poland on the basis that the child she was carrying had a serious malformation.
And it is plainly relevant that the failure of the medical authorities to act promptly denied her the opportunity to vindicate that legal entitlement.
But what ECtHR had to say about the nature of the effect on her in being required to carry the baby to term is clearly relevant to an evaluation of the impact that the imposition of such a requirement has on a woman who does not enjoy equivalent rights in the domestic laws of the country of which she is a citizen.
At para 159 the court said: The Court notes that the applicant was in a situation of great vulnerability.
Like any other pregnant woman in her situation, she was deeply distressed by information that the foetus could be affected with some malformation.
It was therefore natural that she wanted to obtain as much information as possible so as to find out whether the initial diagnosis was correct, and if so, what was the exact nature of the ailment.
She also wanted to find out about the options available to her.
As a result of the procrastination of the health professionals as described above, she had to endure weeks of painful uncertainty concerning the health of the foetus, her own and her familys future and the prospect of raising a child suffering from an incurable ailment She suffered acute anguish through having to think about how she and her family would be able to ensure the childs welfare, happiness and appropriate long term medical care. (Emphasis supplied)
In RR the applicants distress was rooted in her uncertainty about the prospects for her unborn child and the impact that her condition would have on her family.
It was also due to the lack of information provided by the medical authorities.
But, where a woman is presented with a definite diagnosis as to the future for the foetus she carries and the certainty that nothing can be done in Northern Ireland to alleviate her plight, can it be said that her anguish is less acute than that suffered by RR? If a lack of certainty about prognosis and the options available is sufficient to constitute a violation of article 3, is not a definite prognosis and the complete shutting down of all options an a fortiori case of breach of that article?
It cannot be correct, as the Attorney General and Mr McGleenan QC for the Department of Justice argued, that the breach of article 3 in RRs case depended on the existence