 made under primary legislation which cannot be read or given effect in a way which is compatible with Convention rights.
Further, by section 6(6), an act does not include a failure to introduce, or lay before Parliament a proposal for legislation or make any primary legislation.
It follows that the Commissions powers under sections 69 and 71 of the NI Act 1998 do not include either instituting or intervening in proceedings where the only complaint is that primary legislation, such as the 1861 Act, is incompatible with the Convention Rights.
Neither the Westminster Parliaments enactment of, nor its or the Northern Irish legislatures failure to repeal or amend, the 1861 Act can constitute an unlawful act under sections 6 and 7 of the HRA: see the preceding paragraphs of this judgment.
Such proceedings would not therefore involve any suggestion of an unlawful act within the meaning of section 7 of the HRA or, therefore, of section 71 of the NI Act.
The Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland thought that this conclusion could be avoided by reading into section 71(2C)(a)(ii) the additional words in respect of unlawful acts after Act: para 42.
This would leave section 69(5)(b) completely unconstrained and unregulated by section 71 as regards proceedings not relying on any unlawful act.
That is by itself implausible.
But, more fundamentally, there is neither a need nor any basis for any such words to be read into section 71.
A reading of section 71 as a whole makes clear that it was envisaged as establishing a limited jurisdiction.
Section 71(1) identifies the requirement of victimhood to be satisfied by any person challenging legislation of the devolved Assembly or subordinate legislation or other acts of the devolved administration which are unlawful in terms of sections 6 and 7 of the HRA.
Further, sections 71(3) and (4) make express that section 71(1) is not intended to embrace proceedings challenging legislation of the devolved Assembly or subordinate legislation or an act of the devolved administration which is, by virtue of section 6(2) of the HRA, not unlawful for the purposes of sections 6(1) and 7 of the HRA.
It is in other words clear that no one can claim to be an actual or potential victim in relation to any such devolved or subordinate legislation or devolved act if it was compelled by or done to give effect to or to enforce provisions of primary legislation.
The exclusion of the Commission from section 71(1) is simply the prelude to the Commissions powers to institute or intervene in proceedings, but this is carefully limited to situations where there is or would be an unlawful act, of the kind identified in section 7 of the HRA.
It is likewise clear that the Commission cannot either institute or intervene in proceedings where neither it nor anyone else can claim to be an actual or potential victim of an unlawful act, because the situation falls within section 6(2) of the HRA.
In these circumstances, it is, as I have said, implausible to suppose that Parliament by the NI Act 1998 at the same time intended the Commission to be able to institute or intervene in proceedings where the complaint was that primary legislation of the United Kingdom Parliament was itself incompatible with the Convention rights, without either referring to this or imposing any restriction on the circumstances.
It would amount to carte blanche to the Commission, without having to establish any standing or interest other than its general interest in promoting and protecting human rights, to bring any proceedings it thought fit to establish the interpretation and/or incompatibility of primary legislation under section 3 and/or 4 of the HRA.
This would contrast incongruously with the express and