 (MM (Lebanon)) v Secretary of State for the Home Department [2014] EWCA Civ 985; [2015] 1 WLR 1073, para 134, to the effect that If the particular immigration rule is one which, being an interference with the relevant Convention right, is also incapable of being applied in a manner which is proportionate or justifiable or is disproportionate in all (or nearly all) cases, then it is unlawful.
However, I myself see no basis for so high a numerical test.
It cannot be necessary to establish incompatibility to show that a law or rule will operate incompatibly in all or most cases.
It must be sufficient that it will inevitably operate incompatibility in a legally significant number of cases.
That itself is, as Lady Hale observed, is a difficult hurdle to overcome.
Very often the problem lies not in the law or rule itself, but in the way it has been understood or applied in practice, and, even in borderline cases, very often the solution can be found in a conforming interpretation, however bold, under section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998.
The latter course is not however possible in relation to the 1861 or 1945 Acts, in view of their unequivocal tenor and terms.
Expert evidence
Professor (or as he was then Dr) James Dornan, director of foetal medicine at the Royal Jubilee Maternity Service at the Royal Maternity Hospital, Belfast gave evidence to the court in the FPANI case and has given further evidence in the present proceedings.
In the FPANI case (see paras 122 to 123), he explained how, after his appointment as a consultant with responsibility for foetal medicine in 1986, he had clarified with the Department of Health the implications of diagnosis of congenital deformities, and was, as he recorded in a letter dated 31 August 2001, informed that we should not change our clinical practice and that termination of pregnancy should be carried out for lethal abnormalities or abnormalities where there would be a major physical or mental problem for the foetus prior to the stage of viability. (At that time 28 weeks, now considered to be 24 weeks.) We were also informed that termination could be offered and performed on a pregnancy that could have a serious mental or physical effect on the mother.
Therefore for the past decade, terminations of pregnancy for the above abnormalities have been offered to mothers and are carried out on mothers from throughout Northern Ireland in our unit.
In the FPANI case (para 83), Nicholson LJ inferred that the Department of Health had not considered the legal position in relation to abnormal foetuses, and that It would appear that it has never been indicated to Dr Dornan or his colleagues that it might be necessary to obtain a psychiatric viewpoint on the mothers mental health, if that was the ground on which the abortion of a viable foetus was carried out or that the effect on the mothers health would have to be serious and long term.
In the present proceedings, Professor Dornan has updated the position in a statement dated 17 October 2017, in which he records that the FPANI case made it clear that we could no longer offer a pregnant woman the option of an abortion on the grounds of fatal foetal abnormality alone, the focus had to be on the pregnant woman and a pregnancy could be lawfully terminated if its continuation threatened her life or would have a serious and long term effect on her physical or mental health (para 12).
His statement endorses the Department of Healths and the Royal College of Midwiferys conclusions that foetal or serious foetal abnormalities can now be diagnosed with a high degree (Professor Dornan says extremely high degree) of accuracy.
