 the position in respect of incest in greater detail in paras 127 to 131 below.
In support of its Order 53 statement, the Commissions Chief Commissioner, Mr Les Allamby, swore an affidavit, confirming that the Commissions case was made pursuant to section 4 of the HRA and based on alleged incompatibility with Convention Rights of the sections identified above of both the 1861 and the 1945 Acts.
In other words, it treated both Acts as primary legislation.
On that basis, it is not clear on what basis it could have been thought that any relief could be granted beyond that identified in sub para (1).
Just conceivably, sub paras (2) and (4) may have been framed to cover the possibility of a more expansive interpretation of the Bourne exception (deriving from R v Bourne [1939] 1 KB 687), along the lines which the Lord Chief Justice accepted in the Court of Appeal: para 79.
Be that as it may be, while the 1861 Act is clearly primary legislation, the same cannot in my opinion be said of the 1945 Act.
The 1945 Act was an Act of the Parliament of Northern Ireland, established by the Government of Ireland Act 1920.
In terms of the HRA, it constitutes subordinate, rather than primary, legislation: see the definitions in section 21 of the HRA, and in particular paragraph (c) in relation to subordinate legislation.
For present purposes, this point may not prove significant, since it is unclear what section 25 of the 1945 Act adds, at least in law, to sections 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act.
Brice Dicksons Law in Northern Ireland, para 7.17, instances the 1945 Act as one of a number introduced in the face of jury reluctance to convict of existing offences with greater overtones of evilness in the same areas.
Before the Supreme Court, the first issue is whether it was within the Commissions competence to seek the relief identified in sub paragraph 43 above, that is a general declaration of incompatibility in relation to primary legislation of the United Kingdom Parliament.
This issue is raised both in direct response to the Commissions claim and pursuant to devolution questions referred to the Supreme Court under section 33 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 (the NI Act 1998) by the Attorney General for Northern Ireland by notice dated 18 January 2017.
The devolution questions which have been referred ask, in summary, whether the Commission was empowered to institute human rights proceedings or seek a declaration of incompatibility other than as respects an identified unlawful act or acts.
Only if it was within the Commissions competence to issue proceedings for the relief claimed, could the court make any declaration of incompatibility, even if incompatibility was otherwise established.
The second issue, arising strictly only if the Commission had such competence, is whether any incompatibility is established.
Both Horner J and the Court of Appeal held that the Commission had such competence.
Having so held, Horner J went on to conclude that there was incompatibility, but only in so far as it is an offence to procure a miscarriage (a) at any stage during a pregnancy where the foetus has been diagnosed with a fatal foetal abnormality, or (b) up to the date when the foetus is capable of being born alive where a pregnancy arises as a result of rape or incest.
The Court of Appeal, in three differently reasoned judgments, concluded that there was no incompatibility.
The respondents, the Department of Justice and the Attorney General for Northern Ireland, appeal on the first issue, while the Commission appeals on the second issue.
The Commissions competence to