 R M Dworkin (ed), The Philosophy of Law): You wake up in the morning and find yourself back to back in bed with an unconscious violinist.
A famous unconscious violinist.
He has been found to have a fatal kidney ailment, and the Society of Music Lovers has canvassed all the available medical records and found that you alone have the right blood type to help.
They have therefore kidnapped you, and last night the violinists circulatory system was plugged into yours, so that your kidneys can be used to extract poisons from his blood as well as your own.
The director of the hospital now tells you, Look, were sorry the Society of Music Lovers did this to you we would never have permitted it had we known.
But still, they did it, and the violinist is now plugged into you.
To unplug you would be to kill him.
But never mind, its only for nine months.
By then he will have recovered from his ailment, and can be safely unplugged from you.
There can be no doubt that the grossest invasion of your legal rights has taken place: the question is whether you are now under a legal duty to endure that invasion for the next nine months.
By definition we are here considering the cases of women and girls who either did not want to become pregnant at all, or having experienced the joy of a wanted pregnancy, have reached the agonising conclusion that because of the foetal abnormalities, they do not wish to carry the pregnancy to term.
There will of course be women who decide that they do wish to continue the pregnancy despite the circumstances.
Any woman or girl who finds herself in such a situation and wants an abortion will have made her own moral choice, often a very difficult moral choice.
The question is whether others, many of whom will never be placed in that situation, are entitled to make a different moral choice for her, and impose upon her a legal obligation to carry the pregnancy to term.
The present law, contained in sections 58 and 59 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861, an Act of the UK Parliament, and section 25(1) of the Criminal Justice Act (NI) 1945, an Act of the Northern Ireland legislature, does impose that obligation upon her, unless there is a risk to her life or of serious long term or permanent injury to her physical or mental health.
Indeed, it does more than that.
It has, as the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women has recently pointed out, a chilling effect upon clinicians, who are reluctant to discuss the options for fear of being thought to aid, abet, counsel or procure an abortion which might be unlawful.
It also discourages women who have had abortions, lawful or unlawful, from seeking proper after care, because of section 5 of the Criminal Law Act (NI) 1967: anyone who knows or believes that an offence has been committed and has information which might be of material assistance in securing the apprehension, prosecution, or conviction of the person who committed it, commits an offence if they fail without reasonable excuse to give that information to the police within a reasonable time.
The Departmental Guidance for Health and Social Care Professionals on Termination of Pregnancy in Northern Ireland (March 2016) draws professionals attention to both these risks.
The Royal Colleges of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, of Midwives and of Nursing described the 2013 draft as intimidating for women and for professionals and the CEDAW Committee found that the finalised Guidance perpetuates such intimidation (Report of the inquiry concerning the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland under article 8 of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, CEDAW/C