 controversial and sensitive issue, with moral and religious dimensions, which undoubtedly justifies a relatively cautious approach from the courts.
Secondly, this is not a case like In re G (Adoption: Unmarried Couple) where the incompatibility is simple to identify and simple to cure: whether, and if so how, to amend section 2 would require much anxious consideration from the legislature; this also suggests that the courts should, as it were, take matters relatively slowly.
Thirdly, section 2 has, as mentioned above, been considered on a number of occasions in Parliament, and it is currently due to be debated in the House of Lords in the near future; so this is a case where the legislature is and has been actively considering the issue.
Fourthly, less than 13 years ago, the House of Lords in R (Pretty) v Director of Public Prosecutions [2002] 1 AC 800 gave Parliament to understand that a declaration of incompatibility in relation to section 2 would be inappropriate, a view reinforced by the conclusions reached by the Divisional Court and the Court of Appeal in this case: a declaration of incompatibility on this appeal would represent an unheralded volte face.
Several obvious points of distinction between the situation encountered in the Nicklinson case and this appeal are immediately apparent.
True it may be that this case, like Nicklinson, gives rise to a difficult, controversial and sensitive issue, with moral and religious dimensions, but I would not accept that, in this instance, the incompatibility is difficult to identify or that it is difficult to cure.
To the contrary, denial of a womans right to autonomy, which must surely be an indispensable aspect of her right to respect for a private life, gives rise to a readily identifiable incompatibility in cases of fatal foetal abnormality, rape or incest.
And, the remedy for that incompatibility is easy to find.
A simple amendment to the 1861 and 1945 Acts, permitting termination of pregnancy in those cases would achieve that aim.
The other obvious point of distinction is that, unlike the position of Parliament in the Nicklinson case, the Northern Ireland Assembly is not about to actively [consider] the issue.
The fourth factor identified by Lord Neuberger in Nicklinson (that a declaration of incompatibility would be a volte face) does not arise in this instance.
It is to be remembered that a declaration of incompatibility does no more than indicate to the appropriate legislative body that a particular statutory provision has been deemed to be inconsistent with citizens Convention rights.
As was said in paras 343 and 344 of Nicklinson: 343.
An essential element of the structure of the Human Rights Act 1998 is the call which Parliament has made on the courts to review the legislation which it passes in order to tell it whether the provisions contained in that legislation comply with the Convention.
By responding to that call and sending the message to Parliament that a particular provision is incompatible with the Convention, the courts do not usurp the role of Parliament, much less offend the separation of powers.
A declaration of incompatibility is merely an expression of the courts conclusion as to whether, as enacted, a particular item of legislation cannot be considered compatible with a Convention right.
In other words, the courts say to Parliament, This particular piece of legislation is incompatible, now it is for you to decide what to do about it.
And under the scheme of the Human Rights Act 1998 it is open to Parliament to decide to do nothing. 344.
What the courts do in making a declaration of incompatibility is to remit the issue to Parliament for a political decision, informed by the courts view of the law.
The remission of the issue to Parliament does not