? I understand, of course, the view that this is a matter which should be left entirely to the democratic judgment of the Northern Ireland Assembly (or the United Kingdom Government should direct rule have to be resumed).
But I respectfully disagree for several reasons.
First, although the Strasbourg court was prepared to accord Ireland a wide measure of appreciation in the A, B and C case, that was, as the minority pointed out, most unusual.
It cannot be guaranteed that the Strasbourg court would afford the United Kingdom the same margin of appreciation in this case, given that public opinion in Northern Ireland is very different from assumed public opinion in Ireland at the time of the events in A, B and C.
In any event, even if it did, that does not answer the question.
It means only that the United Kingdom authorities have to decide what is, or is not, compatible with the Convention rights.
Second, this is not a matter on which the democratic legislature enjoys a unique competence.
It is a matter of fundamental human rights on which, difficult though it is, the courts are as well qualified to judge as is the legislature.
In fact, in some ways, the courts may be thought better qualified, because they are able to weigh the evidence, the legal materials, and the arguments in a dispassionate manner, without the external pressures to which legislators may be subject.
It falls within the principle accepted by the House of Lords in In re G (Adoption: Unmarried Couple) [2009] AC 173 and indeed by the majority of this Court in R (Nicklinson) v Ministry of Justice (CNK Alliance Ltd intervening) [2015] AC 657.
Third, Parliament has expressly given the higher courts the power to rule upon the compatibility or incompatibility of legislation with the Convention rights.
Parliament did not say, when enacting section 4 of the HRA, but there are some cases where, even though you are satisfied that the law is incompatible with the Convention rights, you must leave the decision to us.
Parliamentary sovereignty is respected, not by our declining to make a declaration, but by what happens if and when we do.
Parliament has three options.
First, it may share the courts view and approve a fast track remedial order under section 10 of the HRA, which is appropriate if the matter is quite simple and easy to solve.
Second, it may share our view and pass an Act of Parliament to put things right, which is appropriate if the matter is not simple and easy to solve, and complex arrangements have to be put in place.
Third, it may do nothing.
This could be because it disagrees with courts view, and prefers to wait and see what view is eventually taken by the European Court of Human Rights.
Or it could be because it is inclined to leave matters as they are for the time being.
The do nothing option is no doubt more attractive if the matter is one which Strasbourg would regard as within the UKs margin of appreciation.
It is at this point that the democratic will, as expressed through the elected representatives of the people, rules the day.
All that a declaration on incompatibility does, therefore, is place the ball in Parliaments court.
This is not a case like Nicklinson in which the matter was already before Parliament and the issues were not as clear cut: the case had changed from one of active euthanasia to one of assisted suicide in the course of its progress through the courts.
In this case, if the court has reached a firm conclusion that the law is incompatible there is little reason not to say so, particularly where, as here, the UK has already been advised that the law is in breach of its international human rights obligations under another treaty.
I would therefore have allowed this appeal