 by Judge Casadevall, in their concurring judgment in A, B and C v Ireland (2010) 53 EHRR 13.
The 2007 amendments to the NI Act 1998 confirm the legislatures approach in this regard.
They removed the reference to section 69(5)(b) from section 71(1), and moved it to section 71(2C).
The clear effect of section 71(2B) and (2C) is they also deal with all circumstances contemplated as falling within section 69(5)(c) and that such circumstances are to be limited to only one situation, viz where there is or would be one or more victims of an unlawful act within sections 6 and 7 of the HRA, in aid of whom the Commission initiates or intervenes in proceedings.
It is, as I have said, implausible to suppose that Parliament intended at the same time to give the Commission tacit and unrestricted capacity to pursue the much more serious course of initiating proceedings to establish the interpretation or incompatibility of primary legislation, whenever it decided that this would promote or protect human rights.
The combination of section 69(5)(b) and section 71 in my view therefore clearly excludes any power on the part of the Commission to institute proceedings to assert the alleged incompatibility of primary legislation of the United Kingdom Parliament with Convention rights.
Any such challenge by the Commission is in my opinion outside the scope of section 71, both before and after its 2007 amendment.
But, even if it were not so, it would not involve any identifiable unlawful act or any act of which any identifiable person could be said to be the actual or potential victim.
The result may be seen, in some eyes, as inconvenient.
However, I think it entirely comprehensible that Parliament should have left any such challenge made by reference to Convention rights to be raised in a specific context, by a victim.
The Commission would be able under sections 69(5)(a) and 70 of the NI Act to give assistance to an individual commencing or wishing to commence proceedings raising a human rights issues or relying or wishing to rely on such an issue in current proceedings.
That is however quite a different matter from the Commission initiating such proceedings in the abstract itself.
Nothing in the Houses reasoning in In re Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission supports a suggestion that there has ever existed such a power on the part of the Commission to initiate legal proceedings.
Any such suggestion would have been inconsistent with section 71 as originally enacted and would now be inconsistent with section 71 as amended with its careful definition and restriction of the circumstances in which the Commission may institute or intervene in proceedings.
Those restrictions clearly exclude the claim to institute abstract proceedings for a declaration of incompatibility with primary United Kingdom legislation, which the Commission now advances.
It is at this point appropriate to say something further about the 1945 Act, which the Commission appears to have treated as primary legislation for the purposes of the HRA: see para 45 above.
As I have already indicated, that does not seem to me correct.
It follows that it might have been open to the Commission to claim that the failure of the Northern Ireland Assembly to repeal or amend section 25 of the 1945 Act constituted itself an unlawful act within the meaning of sections 6 and 7 of the HRA.
I do not see how such a claim could be directed to the first respondent, The Department of Justice, which is not a law making body (and, for good measure, would appear also to have been precluded from taking any initiative to amend the 1945 Act by virtue of section 28A of the Northern Ireland Act and paragraph 2.4 of the Ministerial Code, which assigns such matters to