 seek the relief claimed
Logically, the issue of the Commissions competence should be taken first, and I propose to do so, although in the event it will also be appropriate to express views on the issue of incompatibility, which has been fully argued.
The Commission is a body corporate created by section 68 of the NI Act 1998.
It was accepted by the House of Lords in In re Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission [2002] NI 236 that it only has such powers as are conferred on it by statute, though these can clearly include such powers as may fairly be regarded as incidental to or consequential upon those things which the legislature has authorised: ibid, p 243C.
The relevant statutory provisions in the current legislation define the Commissions functions as follows: 69.
The Commissions functions. (1) The Commission shall keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness in Northern Ireland of law and practice relating to the protection of human rights. (2) The Commission shall, before the end of the period of two years beginning with the commencement of this section, make to the Secretary of State such recommendations as it thinks fit for improving its effectiveness; the adequacy and effectiveness of the functions (a) (b) conferred on it by this Part; and (c) of this Part relating to it. the adequacy and effectiveness of the provisions (3) The Commission shall advise the Secretary of State and the Executive Committee of the Assembly of legislative and other measures which ought to be taken to protect human rights as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of (a) a general or specific request for advice; and (b) on such other occasions as the Commission thinks appropriate. (4) The Commission shall advise the Assembly whether a Bill is compatible with human rights as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt of (a) a request for advice; and (b) on such other occasions as the Commission thinks appropriate. (5) The Commission may (a) give assistance to individuals in accordance with section 70; and (b) bring proceedings involving law or practice relating to the protection of human rights. (6) The Commission shall promote understanding and awareness of the importance of human rights in Northern Ireland; and for this purpose it may undertake, commission or provide financial or other assistance for (a) (b) research; and educational activities. (7) The Secretary of State shall request the Commission to provide advice of the kind referred to in para 4 of the Human Rights section of the Belfast Agreement (8A) The Commission shall publish a report of its findings on an investigation. (8) For the purpose of exercising its functions under this section the Commission may conduct such investigations as it considers necessary or expedient (9) The Commission may decide to publish its advice and the outcome of its research (10) The Commission shall do all that it can to ensure the establishment of the committee referred to in paragraph 10 of that section of that Agreement. (11) In this section a reference to the Assembly includes a reference (a) to a committee of the Assembly; (b) human rights includes the Convention rights.
Section 70 of the NI Act reads: 70.
Assistance by Commission. (1) This section applies to (a) proceedings involving law or practice relating to the protection of human rights which a person in Northern Ireland has commenced, or wishes to commence; or (b) proceedings in the course of which such a person relies, or wishes to rely, on such law or practice. (2) Where the person applies to the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission for assistance in relation to proceedings to which this section applies, the Commission may grant the application on any of the following grounds (a) that the case raises a question of principle; (b) that it