 a fatal abnormality which will cause it either to die in the womb or shortly after birth.
In the case of a foetus with a fatal abnormality, Horner J said there was nothing to weigh in the balance (para 160).
That may perhaps put the point too high, but, even if it does, I agree with his view that the present law cannot be regarded as proportionate.
It is difficult to see what can be said to justify inflicting on the woman the appalling prospect of having to carry a fatally doomed foetus to term, irrespective of such associated physical risk as that may on the evidence involve.
Third, the moral beliefs or policy views at the origin of the present law, or relied on now to justify it, cannot in my opinion explain the contrast in the treatment of these two situations.
Even viewing the latter situation by itself, they cannot justify the infliction of such suffering on women who, by definition, do not share such beliefs or views.
Fourth, the present law treats the pregnant woman as a vehicle who must (as far as Northern Ireland is concerned) be expected to carry a foetus to birth, whatever the other circumstances, and whatever her wishes, as long as this experience does not end her life or ruin her health.
As Ms Dinah Rose QC for the Family Planning Association and other interveners submitted, and as I would accept, that approach fails to attach any weight whatsoever to personal autonomy and the freedom to control ones own life: values which underpin article 8 of the Convention.
Fifth, whatever view may be taken on the first four points, the actual effect of the present law in achieving its aims appears negligible as well as haphazard, in so far it appears probable that all it does is put the large majority of women affected to the stress, indignity and expense of arranging for a mechanical process of abortion away from their familiar home surroundings and sources of local support, while meaning that a minority of women, less well informed, funded or organised, miss out on an abortion altogether (witness the experiences of Mrs Topley and Mrs Phelan).
Even for the majority who do travel abroad, the potential stress and trauma is clearly substantial and potentially long term, even though not sufficiently serious to justify an abortion under current Northern Ireland law.
The European Court of Human Rights in A, B and C v Ireland relied on the possibility of travelling abroad to have an abortion as a reason for not condemning Irish law.
To my mind, however, the fact that the present Northern Ireland law does not achieve its identifiable aims, in most cases, but merely outsources the issue, by imposing on the great majority of women within the categories in issue on this appeal the considerable stress and the cost of travelling abroad, away from their familiar home environment and local care, to undergo the humiliating conveyor belt experience described in evidence, is a potent indication that the present law is disproportionate.
In so far as it does achieve such aims, it in effect victimises unfortunates who miss this humiliating opportunity, because of stress, confusion or lack of funding or organisation in the situation in which they find themselves.
I cannot therefore regard the present law as striking a proportionate balance between the interests of women and girls in the cases of fatal foetal abnormality, when it fails to achieve its objective in the case of those who are well informed and well supported, merely imposing on them harrowing stress and inconvenience as well as expense, while it imposes severe and sometimes life time suffering on the most vulnerable, who, commonly because of lack of information or support, are forced to carry their pregnancy to term.
A number of the considerations identified in relation to fatal foetal abnormality apply with equal force in relation to rape.
This is so in particular in relation to the considerations identified in paras 122