 of the abnormality will have been doubly devastating.
But in the case of fatal foetal abnormality, there can be no community interest in obliging the woman to carry the pregnancy to term if she does not wish to do so.
There is no viable life to protect.
It is, of course, essential that the diagnosis be as accurate as possible, but we have the evidence of Professor Dornan that, before the law was clarified in Family Planning Association of Northern Ireland v Minister for Health, Social Security and Public Safety [2004] NICA 39; [2005] NI 188, abortions were offered in such cases and there was a high level of accuracy in the diagnosis.
Travelling to Great Britain is even more difficult in such cases, as the problem is often detected comparatively late in the pregnancy, at 18 to 20 weeks, which leaves very little time to make the arrangements and there may be no counselling offered on what the options are.
If the woman does manage to travel, not only will she have all the trauma and expense associated with that, but also serious problems in arranging the repatriation of the foetal remains.
Serious foetal abnormality is a different matter.
The CEDAW committee has obviously had some difficulty in reconciling its views on the legalisation of abortion, which it systematically recommends in all cases (Report, para 58), with the views of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
Thus the CEDAW Committee states (Report, para 60): The Committee interprets articles 12 and 16, clarified by GR Nos 24 and 28, read with articles 2 and 5, to require States parties to legalise abortion, at least in cases of rape, incest, threats to the life and/or health (physical or mental) of the woman, or severe foetal impairment.
The Committee has not taken the view it does of the legalisation of abortion because there is an express provision to that effect in the Convention: it has taken the view that it is the inescapable conclusion from the rights which the Convention does recognise.
Article 12 requires State parties to eliminate discrimination against women in the field of health care, in order to ensure equality between men and women in access to health care services.
Article 16 requires the same in relation to family relations, including the right to decide freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of children.
Article 2 is a general prohibition of discrimination against women and requires positive steps to achieve equality between men and women.
Article 5 requires, inter alia, the elimination of practices based on the inferiority or superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotypical roles for men and women.
However (Report, para 62): In cases of severe foetal impairment, the Committee aligns itself with the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the condemnation of sex selective and disability selective abortions, both stemming from the need to combat negative stereotypes and prejudices towards women and persons with disabilities.
While the Committee consistently recommends that abortion on the ground of severe foetal impairment be available to facilitate reproductive choice and autonomy, States parties are obligated to ensure that womens decisions to terminate pregnancies on this ground do not perpetuate stereotypes towards persons with disabilities.
Such measures should include the provision of appropriate social and financial support for women who choose to carry such pregnancies to term.
Accordingly, the CEDAW Committee recommended to the UK that it adopt legislation legalising abortion at least where there is a threat to the pregnant womans physical or mental health; rape or incest; and severe foetal impairment, including fatal foetal abnormality without perpetuating stereotypes towards persons with disabilities and ensuring appropriate and ongoing support, social and financial, for women who decide to carry such pregnancies to term (para 