 aspects.
Rational connection
If one posits that the legitimate aim is the protection of the unborn child, there is an obvious and rational connection between the aim and the restriction on termination of pregnancy.
If, however, the legitimate aim is the protection of foetuses with a reasonable prospect of survival and is attended by a blanket ban on abortion in all cases where there is not a serious and long term threat to the health of the mother, a rational connection between the aim and the means employed is less easily forged.
This subject is better dealt with under the third and fourth requirements of the proportionality analysis, however.
The least intrusive means
The third stage in Quila, are the measures no more than is necessary to achieve the aim? is sometimes expressed as, are they the least intrusive means of accomplishing the objective?.
The starting point of the discussion on this question must be the recognition of the fundamental nature of the right in question.
A womans right to respect for her private life, her right to exercise autonomy over her own body, her entitlement to make decisions as to her own welfare and happiness lie at the very centre of her existence.
Interference with that right, to be proportionate, must be no more than is necessary to achieve the aim that it is designed to fulfil.
In Mouvement Raelien Suisse v Switzerland (2012) 56 EHRR 14, para 75, in the course of considering the proportionality of the measure under challenge, ECtHR said, the authorities are required, when they decide to restrict fundamental rights, to choose the means that cause the least possible prejudice to the rights in question.
And in Nada v Switzerland (2012) 56 EHRR 18, para 183, the Strasbourg court employed a similar formula: The court has previously found that, for a measure to be regarded as proportionate and as necessary in a democratic society, the possibility of recourse to an alternative measure that would cause less damage to the fundamental right at issue whilst fulfilling the same aim must be ruled out.
The exercise involved in deciding whether the measure is the least intrusive throws the focus back on the question of the legitimacy of the aim.
In relation to cases involving fatal foetal abnormality, is it the protection of every foetus whose continued existence does not present a threat of serious, long term harm to the health of the mother, irrespective of the chances of his or her survival, as the Attorney General argues, or is it, as Horner J suggests, the protection of unborn children who enjoy a prospect of viable life? Viewed through the prism of the fundamental nature of the mothers right under article 8, I have no hesitation in concluding that it is the latter.
The question of the protection of morals or moral values adds nothing to this debate, in my opinion.
As Weatherup LJ implicitly suggested, how can it be moral to allow the abortion of a healthy foetus where there is a serious threat to the long term health of the mother but to forbid it when the foetus will not survive?
If, therefore, the legitimate aim in restricting abortion in these cases is the protection of unborn children who have a reasonable chance of survival after birth, the reasonableness of imposing a blanket ban on the termination of pregnancy in every case where its continuation does not present a serious, long term threat to the health of the mother is obviously difficult.
Put in stark terms, if the foetus has little hope of survival, can it be said that requiring the mother to carry it to term is the least intrusive means of achieving the aim of protecting the unborn child who does have a hope of survival? Clearly not.
Different considerations arise in the case of victims of rape and incest.
As I have said, all three members of the Court of Appeal considered that