 they could claim to be victims.
But, under section 71(2), the principal Law Officers of England, Northern Ireland and Scotland could bring such proceedings.
It is not clear why the original version of section 71(1) (set out in para 175 of Lord Kerrs judgment) referred to section 69(5)(b), but it had the effect of preventing the NIHRC bringing proceedings to challenge any legislation or act, because the NIHRC could never (or hardly ever) claim to be a victim of such legislation or act.
That defect was recognised by the House of Lords in In re Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission [2002] NI 236 and the problem dealt with by deleting the reference to section 69(5)(b) in section 71(1) and expressly providing in section 71(2A) that the prohibition did not apply to the NIHRC.
It is clear, therefore, that the NIHRC has power to challenge any legislation or act without being its victim.
Sections 71(2B) and (2C) go on to deal with the Commissions instituting or intervening in human rights proceedings.
Section 71(2B)(a) makes it clear that the Commission itself need not be a victim of the unlawful act to which the proceedings relate.
But section 71(2B)(c) provides that the Commission may act only if there is or would be one or more victims of the unlawful act.
By section 71(2C) human rights proceedings means proceedings under section 7(1)(b) of the HRA or under section 69(5)(b) of the Northern Ireland Act.
Section 7(1)(b) refers to claims that a public authority has acted or proposes to act incompatibly with a Convention right, which claims may be relied on in any legal proceedings, but only if the person making the claim is or would be a victim of the unlawful act.
Construing the subsection as a whole, the reference to proceedings under section 69(5)(b) must mean proceedings brought by the NIHRC claiming that a public authority has acted or proposes to act incompatibly with a Convention right.
It then makes perfect sense for section 71(2B)(c) to provide that the NIHRC can only bring proceedings in respect of an unlawful act if there is or would be a real victim of such an act.
But we know that the Human Rights Act provides two different methods of seeking to ensure compliance with the Convention rights.
One is for victims to bring proceedings in respect of an unlawful act of a public authority, or to rely on such an unlawful act in other proceedings, pursuant to section 7(1) of the HRA.
The other is to challenge the compatibility of legislation under sections 3 and 4 of the HRA, irrespective of whether there has been any unlawful act by a public authority.
This may be done in proceedings between private persons, as in Wilson v First County Trust (No 2) [2004] 1 AC 816 and Ghaidan v Godin Mendoza.
But it may also be done in judicial review proceedings brought by person with sufficient standing to do so.
A current example is Steinfeld v Secretary of State for Education [2017] 3 WLR 1237, where the provisions in the Civil Partnership Act 2004 limiting civil partnerships to same sex couples are under challenge.
The NIHRC clearly has standing to bring such proceedings by virtue of section 69(5)(b).
In my view, therefore, section 71(2B) and (2C) are dealing only with proceedings brought by the NIHRC, or interventions by the NIHRC in proceedings brought by others, in respect of claims that a public