 reference to the precise nature of the moral view that the unborn child should be protected in such circumstances.
The evidence submitted concerns the materials circulated in the consultation process about the scope of proposals for amendment of the present law.
The focus is on the practicalities of amendments and the nature of conditions that might apply, all entirely legitimate matters for discussion.
What is absent is the underlying rationale for the exclusion of fatal foetal abnormality by reference to the moral view on the protection of the unborn child when that protection is not afforded in those cases where termination of pregnancy is permitted under present arrangements in the case of a healthy unborn child by recognising a preference for the quality of life of the mother. (original emphasis)
In other words, where a firm medical diagnosis has been made that the foetus will not survive, what is the moral value in insisting that the mother carry the unborn child to term? In this context, it is important to recognise that all three members of the Court of Appeal identified the legitimate aim as being the protection of the unborn child as an element of the moral values or views of society rather than having any intrinsic worth.
The case made by the Attorney General appears to depart from the Court of Appeals understanding of the legitimate aim and to assign an inherent and fundamental value to the life of the unborn child.
At para 81 of his printed case, the Attorney makes this claim: the balance struck by the current law of Northern Ireland does not purport to afford absolute protection to the unborn child.
The balance is struck, instead, in favour of the mothers life and health, with the public interest in the protection of life before birth giving way when (and only when) the impact on the mother reaches the level where a threat to the life of the mother or serious and long term threat to her health can be established.
Where that impact is not serious or not long term, the unborn child is absolutely protected, whether or not he/she came into being as a result of rape or incest and whether or not his/her life is likely to be short lived.
On this argument, the legitimate aim of the legislation must be taken to be that, absent serious and long term threat to the mothers health, the foetus must be afforded complete and unconditional protection.
Much of the argument surrounding this issue is also (and more directly) relevant to the third and fourth stages identified by Lord Wilson in Quila.
As Lord Sumption said in Bank Mellat, the four requirements are logically separate, but in practice they inevitably overlap because the same facts are likely to be relevant to more than one of them (para 20).
But I do not accept that the aim identified by the Attorney General in such absolute terms can be regarded as legitimate.
How can it be said to be legitimate to force a woman to carry a baby to term, when there is conclusive evidence that it will not survive?
Although he does not say so explicitly, Weatherup LJ appeared at least to doubt that restrictions on abortion in cases of fatal foetal abnormality could be a legitimate aim see the passage from para 167 of his judgment quoted at para 273 above.
It should be noted, however, that at para 145 he stated that he was satisfied that the restriction on termination of pregnancies pursues the legitimate aim of the protection of morals reflecting the views of the majority of the members of the last Assembly on the protection of the unborn child.
If expressed in general terms such as the protection of the unborn child, I have no quarrel with the proposition that restriction on the termination of pregnancy pursues a legitimate aim.
It is when one begins to examine the nature of the restriction that difficulties with the legitimacy of the aim emerge.
But this debate finds a more natural home in consideration of the third and fourth stages of Quila and I will return to it when dealing with those