361.
That concerned a break option in a lease exercisable by either party upon the giving of written notice to the other.
The premises were used by U Ltd, an associated company of the defendant, and correspondence relating to rent demands and other matters had been between that company and WT Ltd, an associated company of the claimant.
It was held that a notice given by U Ltd to WT Ltd was valid, on the basis of an assumed general agency arising from past conduct, even though neither company was expressly authorised for that purpose.
The Vice Chancellor also noted but rejected an argument that the relevant clause required the tenant to give notice to the landlord, and that, although the landlord had ultimately received the notice, no notice had ever been given to the landlord as such.
He said: I do not think that a requirement to give notice is one that excludes the indirect giving of notice.
The question is whether the notice has been given, not whether it has been given directly.
If the notice emanates from the giver and reaches the ultimate recipient, I do not think that it matters if it has passed through more hands than one in transit. (p 366)
Electronic communication
The other main issue in this appeal is whether it matters that the notice was received by UKI in electronic form.
We were referred to no direct authority on service of a scanned copy of a notice by email.
However, Mr Kokelaar for the council relied on two earlier authorities in which delivery of notices by fax was accepted as valid.
In Hastie & Jenkerson v McMahon [1990] 1 WLR 1575 the Court of Appeal accepted that service of a list of documents by fax was valid service for the purposes of a consent order in civil proceedings under the Rules of the Supreme Court.
In the leading judgment, Woolf LJ said: . are there any legal reasons why advantage should not be taken of the progress in technology which fax represents to enable documents to be served by fax, assuming that this is not contrary to any of the Rules of the Supreme Court? The purpose of serving a document is to ensure that its contents are available to the recipient and whether the document is served in the conventional way or by fax the result is exactly the same. [Counsel] on behalf of the defendant submits that what is transmitted by fax is not the document but an electronic message.
However, this submission fails to distinguish between the method of transmission and the result of the transmission by fax.
What is produced by the transmission of the message by fax, admittedly using the recipients machine and paper, is the document which the other party intended should be served.
What is required is that a legible copy of the document should be in the possession of the party to be served.
This fax achieves.
I therefore conclude that service by fax can be good service subject to any requirement of the order requiring service of a particular document and any requirement of the Rules of the Supreme Court. (pp 1579 1580).
I emphasise that if a document is served by a means for which neither the rule nor statute provides, there will only be good service if it be proved that the document, in a complete and legible state, has indeed been received by the intended recipient.
I realise that transmission of documents by fax is a relatively recent development.
If, in a particular case, what emerges from the recipients fax machine is not, or may not be, complete or is not wholly legible, a court will be justified in concluding that the document has not been properly served. (p 1585) Agreeing, Glidewell LJ added: The third member of the court Lloyd LJ, while not dissenting, expressed some misgivings.
He would have preferred to wait for consideration of the question by the Supreme Court Procedure Committee.
As