 ascertained after reasonable inquiry, by addressing it to him by the description of owner of the building (describing it) to which the notice relates and by affixing it to some conspicuous part of the building.
General provision for the service of statutory notices by local authorities is also made by section 233 of the Local Government Act 1972.
In particular it provides: (7) If the name or address of any owner, lessee or occupier of land to or on whom any document mentioned in subsection (1) above is to be given or served cannot after reasonable inquiry be ascertained, the document may be given or served either by leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or employed on the land or by leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or object on the land.
As to the date of service, under such statutory provisions, section 7 of the Interpretation Act 1978 provides: Where an Act authorises or requires any document to be served by post (whether the expression serve or the expression give or send or any other expression is used) then, unless the contrary intention appears, the service is deemed to be effected by properly addressing, pre paying and posting a letter containing the document and, unless the contrary is proved, to have been effected at the time at which the letter would be delivered in the ordinary course of post.
Factual background
In January 2009 the respondent (UKI) began the redevelopment of a building at 1 Kingsway to provide 130,000 sq ft of office space.
In February 2012 the appellant council informed UKIs agents that it intended to serve a completion notice specifying a completion date of 1 June 2012.
It asked the agents to confirm the identity of the owner of the building, but the agents declined to do so without obtaining instructions from their client which were not forthcoming.
At that time the building was managed by Eco FM (Eco) under a contract with UKI, but Eco had no authority to accept service of documents on its behalf.
On 5 March 2012, the council delivered a completion notice by hand to the building, specifying 1 June 2012 as the completion date.
The notice was addressed to the Owner, 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AN.
It was given to a receptionist employed by Eco, who scanned and emailed a copy of the notice to UKI.
It was received by UKI not later than 12 March 2012.
On 29 March 2012 an appeal was lodged by UKIs agents against the completion notice, purportedly on behalf of Eco, on the grounds (inter alia) that the service of the notice was invalid.
On 7 May 2013, the premises were brought into the list with a rateable value of 2,750,000 with effect (as subsequently corrected) from 1 June 2012.
This was met by a proposal on behalf of UKI that the entry be deleted.
The proposal was not accepted by the valuation officer and was transmitted to the Valuation Tribunal for determination on appeal.
The appeals against both the completion notice and the inclusion of the premises in the list were consolidated and heard by the Valuation Tribunal (President Graham Zellick QC), which allowed the appeal.
That decision was reversed by the Upper Tribunal (Deputy President Martin Rodger QC) [2015] RA 433 but re instated by the Court of Appeal (Gloster, Macur, and King LJJ) [2017] PTSR 1606.
The Court of Appeal (para 37) recorded as common ground: i) that the state of the premises at the relevant time was such that, but for the deeming