 Hobhouse LJ.
Mr Kolinsky also repeats Gloster LJs emphasis on the need for certainty in a taxing statute.
In that context he relies on paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 4A to the Act where (in relation to a completed building) the authority is required to specify the date of service as the date from which liability is to begin.
There can be no such certainty if the council has no control over the process by which the notice reaches the recipient.
On the issue of electronic communication, he points to the fact that ministerial intervention was considered necessary to authorise the use of such communication in some aspects of the non domestic rating scheme, while no such intervention was made in respect of completion notices.
This carefully drawn scheme would be otiose if there existed some common law rule permitting the use of electronic service as a generality.
Further the limitation of electronic service to cases where the ratepayer had assented by providing an address for electronic service would make no sense if the authority were able to serve without the ratepayers consent.
Discussion
The method of attempted service adopted by the council was far from ideal.
As already noted, the purpose of specific provisions such as paragraph 8 is to provide reliable methods of service and to minimise the risk to the council of non delivery.
Given that, as is now accepted, the name and address of the owner could have been discovered by reasonable inquiry, it is not clear why this was not done.
We have had no satisfactory explanation for this failure, nor indeed for the failure to take corrective action when the objection to service was raised.
Nothing in this judgment should be taken as detracting from the good sense of the Presidents observation (Valuation Tribunal, para 43): In practice, billing authorities would be well advised to secure the protection afforded by paragraph 8 and not serve outside those provisions unless confident that the circumstances are such that good service will be effected.
However, the two legal issues on which the judges below disagreed are of some general importance and merit consideration by this court.
Hence the grant of permission to appeal.
Indirect service
The difference between the Upper Tribunal and the Court of Appeal comes down to a narrow point.
The Upper Tribunal thought that, since the notice issued by the council reached the hands of the intended recipient, it mattered not that the route was unorthodox.
Gloster LJ thought that this approach failed to give effect to the concept of service on the owner by the authority (emphasis added).
For my part I would accept that the means by which the notice arrives at its destination is not wholly immaterial.
In itself the reference to the billing authority is simply to identify the body responsible for service; it says nothing about how that is to be done.
The real issue, as I see it, adopting the words of Lord Salmon in the Sun Alliance case, is whether the authority caused the notice to be received by UKI.
In other words there must be a sufficient causal connection between the authoritys actions and the receipt of the notice by the recipient.
Mr Kolinsky appeared implicitly to accept that analysis, but he submitted that the chain of causation was broken by the interposition of a third party in the form of the Eco receptionist.
He challenged Mr Kokelaars suggestion that the receptionist was given implied authority to serve the notice, at least in any formal sense.
To that extent I would agree with him; but it is unnecessary and unrealistic in my view to introduce concepts of agency or statutory delegation into this simple sequence of events.
As the Deputy President accepted, the Eco receptionist, on receiving from the council officer a hand delivered notice addressed to the Owner, did no more than would reasonably be expected of a responsible employee in that position: that is, pass on the notice to the person to whom it was addressed.
