 were mandatory in that case does not detract from UKIs submission that what has to be considered in each case is what are the necessary requirements for service under the relevant statutory scheme.
Likewise, a number of cases have emphasised the well established principle that service on a solicitor who does not have authority to accept service of the particular notice on behalf of his client is not valid service on that party.
Glen International Ltd v Triplerose Ltd [2007] L & TR 28; [2007] EWCA Civ 388 makes clear that the Townsends case can be distinguished as being a decision on the particular facts (see para 22) rather than laying down any generally applicable principle.
In the Glen International Ltd, the Court of Appeal did not go on to consider whether the solicitors had passed a copy of the notice to their client.
But it is implicit in that judgment that onward transmission would not have rendered ineffective service effective. (paras 51 52) On the issue of electronic communication, while inclining to a different view from that of the Upper Tribunal, she preferred to leave the matter undetermined in the absence of more detailed submissions on the statutory regime (para 54).
The submissions in this court
For the council, Mr Kokelaar adopts the reasoning of the Upper Tribunal, as supported by the authorities to which I have referred.
In summary, he submits, the words serve and service in Schedule 4A should be given their ordinary meaning, that is delivery of a document to a particular person.
Under general principles, a notice (under statute or contract) is regarded as having been served if it has been received by the intended recipient.
In this case the notice was received by UKI and served its statutory purpose of communicating to UKI the completion date proposed by the council, and it was acted upon by UKI.
As in Townsends Carriers the fact that it passed through the hands of the receptionist did not invalidate service.
Alternatively, the receptionist must be taken as having been impliedly authorised to pass it on to UKI.
In relation to service by email, the reasoning of the authorities on service by fax is indistinguishable.
There is nothing in Schedule 4A, or in the 2000 Act, to exclude service of a completion notice by electronic means, where the ultimate result is exactly the same as if a hard copy had been transmitted in person or by post.
For UKI Mr Kolinsky QC supports the reasoning of Gloster LJ in the Court of Appeal.
In particular he adopts her three stage analysis of the relevant provision, arguing that the council failed at the first stage, that is the requirement for service on the owner by the billing authority.
Whatever method is adopted, it must be the authority itself (acting through its officers) which effects the service.
Service through a third party, which is neither the owners agent nor duly authorised to act on the authoritys behalf, is not service on the owner by the authority.
Further, Mr Kolinsky submits that the involvement of the Eco receptionist broke the necessary chain of causation.
Mr Kokelaars suggestion that the receptionist had implied authority to act for the council was misplaced, having regard to the detailed statutory scheme governing delegation of local authority functions.
It would have been different if for example the council had used a process server under its contractual control to carry out personal service.
Use of such a method might be authorised as incidental to the authoritys functions under section 111(1) of the Local Government Act 1972, without involving any unlawful delegation.
He relies on statements by the Court of Appeal as to the permissible use of contractors or agents under that section, in Crdit Suisse v Allerdale Borough Council [1997] QB 306, 359G per