This appeal raises a short issue as to the requirements for valid service of a completion notice so as to bring a newly completed building within liability for non domestic rates.
The statutory framework
Liability for non domestic rates depends on a property being entered as a hereditament in the rating list.
The completion notice procedure, under section 46A of and Schedule 4A to the Local Government Finance Act 1988, as inserted, (the Act) provides a mechanism whereby a new building, which has not yet been occupied, may be brought into the rating list.
Subject to any appeal, a validly served completion notice has the effect that the building to which it relates is deemed to have been completed on the date specified in the notice.
It is then shown in the rating list as a separate hereditament (or hereditaments), and is valued as if it were complete (section 46A(2)).
Once the building is so shown in the rating list, its owner (or its occupier if it becomes occupied) becomes liable to an assessment for non domestic rates.
The procedure is set out in Schedule 4A. Paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 4A provides that, if it comes to the notice of a billing authority that the work remaining to be done on a new building in its area can reasonably be expected to be completed within three months, it shall (unless the valuation officer directs otherwise) serve on the owner of the building a notice, known as a completion notice.
Paragraph 1(2) contains a similar provision in respect of a new building that has been completed.
The completion notice must (a) specify the building to which it relates and (b) state the day which the billing authority proposes as the completion day (para 2(1)).
In the case of a building which has yet to be completed, the completion day proposed should be: [s]uch day, not later than three months from and including the day on which the notice is served, as the authority considers is a day by which the building can reasonably be expected to be completed. (para 2(2)) In the case of a building which appears to have been completed, it should be the day on which the notice is served (para 2(3)).
A person on whom the completion notice is served may appeal to the Valuation Tribunal on the ground that the relevant building has not been or cannot reasonably be expected to be completed by the day stated in the notice (para 4(1)).
Where an appeal is not withdrawn or dismissed, the completion day shall be such day as the tribunal shall determine (para 4(2)).
An appeal must be brought within 28 days after the date on which the appellant received the completion notice (Non Domestic Rating (Alteration of Lists and Appeals) (England) Regulations 2009 (SI 2009/2268) regulation 19(1), made under paragraph 8(2)(a) of Schedule 11 to the Act).
Paragraph 8, which deals with service, provides: Without prejudice to any other mode of service, a completion notice may be served on a person (a) by sending it in a prepaid registered letter, or by the recorded delivery service, addressed to that person at his usual or last known place of abode or, in a case where an address for service has been given by that person, at that address; in the case of an incorporated company or body, (b) by delivering it to the secretary or clerk of the company or body at their registered or principal office or sending it in a prepaid registered letter or by the recorded delivery service addressed to the secretary or clerk of the company or body at that office; or (c) where the name or address of that person cannot be