 on the basis that the information had never been received. (para 46) Unlike the President he did not see that this approach offended any public interest consideration.
Referring to the dicta in the Townsends Carriers case, he said: If the mode of service selected by the billing authority achieves its objective I find it very difficult to see why the public interest or the interests of justice to which the President referred should render service legally effective in some cases but ineffective in others.
In my judgment a document which arrives in the hands of the intended recipient by an unorthodox route has still been served (para 47) In sending on the notice to UKI, the receptionist had been doing no more than one would expect of a responsible employee of a company engaged to manage the building (para 48).
He dealt more shortly with the issue of electronic communication, saying simply that, there being no dispute that the electronic copy had been received, he could see no justification for distinguishing between notices in different forms (para 49).
The Court of Appeals conclusion turned principally on what they understood to be the natural or normal usage of the statutory language.
As Gloster LJ said; The relevant statutory requirements of section 46A of and paragraph 1 of Schedule 4A to the 1988 Act for present purposes are: (a) that the billing authority (b) shall serve the required completion notice (c) on the owner of the building.
For the billing authority merely to leave the notice with a third party, not authorised to accept service of the notice on the owners behalf, or, indeed, to effect service on the authoritys behalf, in the hope, or with the intention, that the notice will somehow be brought to the attention of the owner, and where a copy of the notice or its contents are in fact subsequently communicated to the owner by the third party, does not, on any natural or normal usage of the words serve and on, constitute service on the owner by the authority.
In other words, the concept of service on the owner by the authority in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4A to the 1988 Act cannot be construed as including effectively all methods of communication or transmission, which ultimately result in the information in the notice (or the notice itself) being brought to the attention of, or delivered to, the owner, in circumstances where the information in the document, or the document itself, has been communicated to the owner by a third party who is not authorised either to accept, or effect, service . (para 44)
She also attached weight to the statutory context: it is a taxing statute which imposes rating liability on a property owner on an assumed basis.
The timetable for a taxpayer to raise an appeal against the completion notice is strict and is based upon the date upon which it received the completion notice.
In those circumstances there are obvious policy considerations which point to a need for certainty and precision as to the date of service (para 49)
On the question of indirect service she did not think that the observations of Sir Robert Megarry V C could be treated as of general application: It is clear from subsequent cases that Megarry V Cs dictum has not been generally applied to justify an expansion of the concept of service to embrace all situations where ultimately the person on whom the relevant notice or document ought to be served has come to know of the contents of the notice, irrespective of whether he or his authorised agent have actually been served.
Thus, for example, in Fagan v Knowsley Metropolitan Borough Council (1985) 50 P & CR 363 this court rejected the application of the dictum in circumstances where what was relevant was the mandatory statutory code for service under section 30 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965.
The fact that the service provisions