 he said, while it is easy enough for courts to give a benevolent construction to the rules to take account of some new contrivance, such as the telex machine or the fax, it is not so easy to see what the repercussions will be, and what other consequential amendments to the rules may be required (p 1586).
The other authority to which we were referred on this point was PNC Telecom plc v Thomas [2003] BCC 202.
Sir Andrew Morritt V C held that a letter sent by fax constituted a validly deposited notice to convene an extraordinary general meeting under section 368 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Vice Chancellor noted that by that time the Electronic Communications Act 2000 (2000 Act) enabled specific modifications to be made to authorise communication by electronic means under existing statutes, including the Companies Act.
Some such modifications had been made, but not in respect of section 368.
Counsel before him had been unable to indicate the basis on which some of these provisions had been singled out for amendment but others not (para 14).
In any event, he did not think that the 2000 Act could be regarded as designed to introduce fax as a permitted means of communication for that had been done on a case by case basis over the preceding 30 years or so (para 16).
Among other authorities he referred to the words of Woolf LJ set out above.
He also noted with agreement observations of Laddie J in Inland Revenue Comrs v Conbeer [1996] BCC 189, on the potential advantages of delivery by fax in terms of reliability and speed.
He saw no reason why fax transmission should not give rise to a valid deposit under section 368, in circumstances where no one had been misled or disadvantaged, and the ultimate result is exactly the same as if it had been transmitted in person or by post (para 22).
The principal dispute on this part of the case is whether these authorities can be relied on as extending to a copy sent by email, having regard in particular to the provisions made in that respect by the 2000 Act.
Section 8 empowers Ministers to make regulations to modify primary and secondary legislation for the purpose of authorising or facilitating the use of electronic communications.
Electronic communication is widely defined as including any form of communication transmitted while in an electronic form (section 15(1)).
In respect of non domestic rates (and council tax) specific regulations have been made for the use of electronic billing in certain circumstances, and subject to particular restrictions: see the Council Tax and Non Domestic Rating (Electronic Communications) (England) Order 2003 (SI 2003/2604).
Thus for example provision is made for the service of certain forms of notice to be given to a person by sending the notice by electronic communication to such address as may be notified by that person for that purpose (see article 4).
No such modification has been made in respect of completion notices.
The judgments below
In the Valuation Tribunal (at para 38), the President thought that, even accepting the formulation by Peter Gibson LJ in the Tadema Holdings case (para 15 above), there had been no delivery of the actual notice to the owner.
In his view intended recipients were entitled to receive the original of any formal notice, in the absence of an expression of willingness to accept electronic service.
The Upper Tribunal took a different view.
The Deputy President found it difficult to accept that: in a case where the vital information has successfully been imparted to the person who needs to receive it, and that person has acted on it by exercising the right of appeal, the need for discipline and regularity in the exercise of the statutory power should be sufficiently powerful considerations to require that the recipients liability be determined