It was the natural consequence of the councils actions.
Mr Kolinsky objected that the receptionist was not under the control of the council, as would have been for example a process server acting under contract.
However, causation does not necessarily depend on control.
Mr Kokelaar countered with the example of a notice correctly addressed, but mistakenly delivered to a neighbouring address and then passed on by the occupant to the intended recipient.
Like him I see no reason why that should not be treated as effective service under ordinary principles of causation, even though the friendly neighbour was not under the control of either party.
This approach to indirect service is consistent with that of Sir Robert Megarry V C in the Townsends Carriers case.
I would agree with Gloster LJ (see para 29 above) that his words cannot be read as intended to embrace all situations where ultimately the intended recipient has come to know of the contents of the notice.
There needs to be actual receipt of the notice, and a sufficient causal link with the actions of the council.
Of the cases to which she referred, Fagan v Knowsley Metropolitan Borough Council provides no assistance, because, as she acknowledged, it was concerned with a mandatory statutory code.
More pertinent perhaps is her reference to cases relating to service of notice on solicitors.
As she says, service of a notice on a solicitor who does not have his clients authority to accept service of the particular notice is not in itself valid service.
She cited Glen International which concerned service of a notice by the landlord in relation to leasehold enfranchisement.
It is true that, having found that the tenants solicitor on whom the notice was served had no authority to accept it, the court did not go on to inquire whether the notice was in fact passed on to the tenant.
It is also true, as Gloster LJ noted, that Townsends Carriers case was referred to as a decision on the particular facts, but that seems to have been on the agency issue.
There is no indication that the case was used to support an argument based on indirect service; nor indeed that there was any evidence that the solicitor had passed on the actual notice, nor any reasonable expectation that he would do so.
That situation is readily distinguishable in my view from the purely mechanical role played by the receptionist in this case.
A further argument against the Upper Tribunals approach was the potential uncertainty it leaves as to the date of service.
As Mr Kolinsky points out, it may be important not only for both parties, but also for the valuation officer, to be able to identify the date of service with precision.
Thus, in respect of a building which appears to have been completed, the date of service must be identified in the notice (paragraph 2(3)), and, subject to appeal, is treated as the completion day so triggering liability to rates.
In respect of a building yet to be completed the proposed completion day must be not later than three months from and including the date of service (Schedule 4A, paragraph 2(2)).
The difficulty with this argument, in my view, is that some uncertainty in this respect is inherent in the legislation, in which neither the methods of service, nor the dates of service in different circumstances, are exhaustively defined.
The simple answer for the authority may be that, where the date of service is critical, it is able to choose a statutory method which eliminates or minimises the risk of the notice being rendered invalid by failure to specify the correct date of service.
If it chooses a non statutory method it must bear that risk.
The risk of prejudice to the owner is limited, since outside the statutory grounds service depends on actual receipt by the intended recipient, and the time for appeal is also related to receipt.
Electronic communication
In