 effect of a completion notice, the premises could not have been entered in the rating list; ii) that the name and address of UKI as owner of the building could have been ascertained by the council by reasonable inquiry, notwithstanding the fact that UKI had instructed the agents not to divulge its name.
Accordingly, the council could not rely on the means of service on the premises permitted by paragraph 8(c) of Schedule 4A to the Act, or section 233(7) of the Local Government Act 1972.
The issue for this court, as identified in the agreed statement of facts and issues, is whether the completion notice was validly served on the date that it was received by UKI, in circumstances where: i) it was not delivered directly to UKI by the council, but passed through the hands of the receptionist employed by Eco, who was not authorised for that purpose by either party; ii) it was received by UKI in electronic rather than paper form.
Service the authorities
It is common ground that, by virtue of the opening words of paragraph 8 of Schedule 4A to the Act, the three specific methods there set out do not exclude other methods of service available under the general law.
There is no serious dispute as to what that entails.
In Sun Alliance and London Assurance Co Ltd v Hayman [1975] 1 WLR 177, 185 CA (a case under the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954), Lord Salmon said: According to the ordinary and natural use of English words, giving a notice means causing a notice to be received.
Therefore, any requirement in a statute or a contract for the giving of a notice can be complied with only by causing the notice to be actually received unless the context or some statutory or contractual provision otherwise provides (No distinction is drawn in the cases between serving and giving a notice: see Kinch v Bullard [1999] 1 WLR 423, 426G.) To similar effect in Tadema Holdings Ltd v Ferguson (1999) 32 HLR 866, 873, Peter Gibson LJ said (in a case relating to service of a notice under the Housing Act 1988): Serve is an ordinary English word connoting the delivery of a document to a particular person.
Specific statutory provisions such as paragraph 8 are designed, not to exclude other methods, but rather to protect the server from the risk of non delivery.
As was said by Slade LJ in Galinski v McHugh (1988) 57 P & CR 359 (in relation to a similar service provision in the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927 section 23(1)): This is a subsection appearing in an Act which contains a number of provisions requiring the giving of notice by one person to another and correspondingly entitling that other person to receive it.
In our judgment, the object of its inclusion . is not to protect the person upon whom the right to receive the notice is conferred by other statutory provisions.
On the contrary, section 23(1) is intended to assist the person who is obliged to serve the notice, by offering him choices of mode of service which will be deemed to be valid service, even if in the event the intended recipient does not in fact receive it. (p 365, original emphasis)
Indirect service
More controversial, and relevant in the present case, is whether it matters that the notice reaches the intended recipient, not directly or through an agent authorised for that purpose, but by the action of a third party.
On this point we were referred to an observation (obiter) of Sir Robert Megarry V C in Townsends Carriers Ltd v Pfizer Ltd (1977) 33 P & CR 