 the travelling parent wrongfully to retain is needed.
Must this be accompanied by some overt act or event by which the intention becomes manifest? Not without misgivings, I am prepared to accept that this is required.
The reason for my misgivings can be explained by taking a simple but not, I suggest, fanciful, example.
Suppose a husband persuades his wife to allow him to take their children to his parents native country on the promise that he will return within a stipulated period.
Days after leaving, he conceives a firm determination that the children and he will never return.
He does not communicate this to anyone.
Some months later, he takes action which clearly demonstrates that he has no intention of returning the children.
Evidence emerges that this was his plan from the outset.
Is the period between his first determining not to return the children and the later event reckonable in the assessment as to whether they have acquired habitual residence in the country of their paternal grandparents? If we say that the retention only becomes wrongful when the intention of the retaining parent becomes manifest, how is the claim by the father in my example that the children have become habitually resident in his parents country to be resisted?
Again, however, this conundrum does not require to be solved in the present appeal and, having expressed my misgivings about the notion that some manifestation of the wrongful retention is required, I say no more about it.
For the reasons given by Lord Hughes and Lord Wilson, the judge ([2016] EWHC 3535 (Fam)) was wrong to hold that the law did not recognise repudiatory retention.
His examination of when such a wrongful retention might have occurred (if, contrary to his view, the concept exists in law) appears to have been coloured by that primary finding, for he concluded that it had not arisen in this case at all.
That finding simply cannot be reconciled with his statement in para 80 that as the months went by, the mother gradually came to the conclusion that she and the children should remain in England.
She had reached that conclusion by around April though it was not communicated to the father.
And this, notwithstanding that he had earlier said, at para 62, that a finding that there was a wrongful retention on some unspecified date in April 2016 is too imprecise.
The opportunity for a firm finding as to the precise timing that an intention was formed is, in the nature of things, unlikely to be always possible.
Intentions are formed over days, weeks or even years.
Because it is not possible to make a positive finding of the date on which it had been formed is not a reason for not making a finding as to the time by which it had been formed.
And indeed Judge Bellamy appears to have done precisely that when he said in para 80 that the mother had decided by around April that the children should remain in England.
The judge, having made that finding, was obliged to consider whether the childrens habitual residence had been established in England by April 2016.
He did not do that.
On that account alone, his decision cannot be allowed to stand, in my opinion.
It is impossible to say that, if he had recognised the true implication of his statement that the mother had, by April 2016, formed the intention not to return the children, he would nevertheless have decided that habitual residence in England had by then already been established.
In the absence of a finding to that effect, or alternatively the inevitability of such a conclusion, it is quite impossible to conclude that the habitual residence of the children had changed at a time which would displace the fathers rights under the Abduction Convention.
There is a more fundamental problem with the judges judgment.
This concerns the communications to the Home Office in