 was said, in support of it, about Mothers intentions.
Of course it was said by her solicitors, but if it showed that by that date she had determined that the childrens centre of life is, and will be, in the UK indefinitely, then it would be capable of being an objectively identifiable manifestation, made to an official third party, of her repudiation of Fathers rights of custody, and of the fact that thereafter her retention of the children in the United Kingdom was not in accordance with the arrangement she had made with him, but in defiance of it.
However, the question which matters is not whether the judge made this error, but whether it affected his conclusion that Mother had not, before the expiry of the agreed year (which he determined was at the end of June 2016) made any act of repudiatory retention.
The judge went on to examine Mothers state of mind.
He found that she vacillated in what she meant to do.
He had seen her examined and cross examined, and it is clear that he believed her when she said that as at both November 2015 and February 2016, she had not yet made up her mind.
In February she had told Father only that she would not be returning in May (when the year would not, on the judges findings, have expired).
He attributed her uncertainty in part to anticipation of harassment from Father.
He then directed himself that even though she gave evidence that by the end of April 2016 she had resolved not to return, that could not be a date for repudiatory retention because it was too imprecise and thus inconsistent with the In re H; In re S rule that retention must be a definite occurrence rather than a continuing process.
To the extent that he relied on imprecision he was, again, clearly wrong.
There is, as explained above, nothing in In re H; In re S which prevents a court from saying that retention had occurred not later than the end of April.
But what does prevent there from being a repudiatory retention in April is that Mothers internal thinking could not by itself amount to such.
If she had had such an intention in November, the application to the immigration authorities would have been capable of amounting to an objective manifestation of her repudiation, but the judge believed her when she said that she did not.
It was open to him to believe her or not to believe her about this.
He saw her and this court has only a transcript.
It does not provide nearly sufficient basis for overturning his decision.
His error about the potential significance of what was said to the immigration authorities in November is not inconsistent with his yet believing the witness whom he saw when she said that she had not then (or until April) made up her mind to stay.
These findings need to be considered alongside the judges decision as to the habitual residence of the children.
He reviewed a body of evidence from Mother, relatives, neighbours and the playschool manager, to the effect that the children were, by the Summer of 2016, firmly integrated into the social and family environment of the part of England in which they had lived for a year, and, in the case of the younger child, for somewhat longer than he had lived in Australia.
By reference to the decision of Hayden J in In re B (A Child) (Custody Rights: Habitual Residence) [2016] EWHC 2174 (Fam); [2016] 4 WLR 156, he directed himself correctly as to the test of habitual residence and the factors relevant to the integration necessary to establish it.
He found that the children were, by the time of their otherwise wrongful retention at the end of June 2016, already habitually resident in the United Kingdom, so that