 establish what the terms were of any arrangement under which the child travelled.
That may be as necessary to establish the date of due return (and thus conventional wrongful retention) as to establish an earlier repudiatory retention.
The Family Division judges who hear these cases are well used to managing them actively and to controlling any tendency to spill outside the issues necessary to determine them.
If the correct rule is that repudiatory retention must be demonstrated by overt act or statement (see below) the danger of speculative applications being made, or of hearings degenerating into speculative cross examination as to the internal and undisclosed thinking of the travelling parent ought not to arise.
It may be that in many cases which would be covered by the concept of repudiatory retention the left behind parent may have remedies alternative to an application under the Abduction Convention.
We were pressed with the contention that ordinarily he will be able to seek an order for return in the home State, and then enforce it in the destination State.
This may indeed sometimes be possible.
It will be possible if both States are party to the 1996 Convention and if at the time of the application to the court of the home State the child is still habitually resident there.
In that event, the home State has jurisdiction (article 5) and the destination State must enforce its decision (article 23).
Article 7 of the 1996 Convention prolongs the jurisdiction of the home State if there has been a wrongful retention, but if the habitual residence of the child has been changed to the destination State by the time of the act relied upon, there will be no wrongful retention and article 7 will not apply.
Nevertheless, the necessity for habitual residence in the home State presents no greater hurdle to the left behind parent under the 1996 Convention than under the Abduction Convention, because if the habitual residence of the child has shifted to the destination State by the time of the act relied on, neither form of machinery will work.
Likewise, if both States are members of the EU and governed by Brussels II Revised.
All that said, the critical fact is that by no means all States which are party to the Abduction Convention are party to the 1996 Convention; at the time of the hearing in this court there were some 49 States which are not.
Even fewer are members of the EU.
The Abduction Convention has its own self contained scheme and should function as such.
The recognition and enforcement provisions in the 1996 Convention are, as explained above, meant to preserve that scheme and not to substitute for it.
Moreover, such an application to the home State would have to trigger a merits hearing, in which the home State has to adjudicate upon where the best interests of the child now lie, and upon whether habitual residence has shifted, all depending on facts occurring perhaps some thousands of miles away.
That is not at all the same as the mandatory summary remedy provided by the Abduction Convention.
Even in jurisdictions, such as England and Wales, which retain the practice of sometimes returning children without a full investigation of the facts (In re J, para 34 above), the remedy is not, for the left behind parent, the equivalent of the Abduction Conventions mandatory summary return.
For all these reasons, the principled answer to the question whether repudiatory retention is possible in law is that it is.
The objections to it are insubstantial whereas the arguments against requiring the left behind parent to do nothing when it is clear that the child will not be returned are convincing and conform to the scheme of the Abduction Convention.
The remaining question is what is needed to constitute such repudiatory retention.
As with any matter of proof or evidence, it would be unwise to attempt any exhaustive definition.
The question is whether the travelling parent has manifested a denial, or