 the Abduction Convention could not apply to call for a mandatory summary return.
He expressed the view that they had probably become habitually resident in England much earlier than June 2016.
There is no basis in law for criticising the judges decision as to habitual residence.
His remark that it was arguable that the children had established habitual residence by the time of the November application to the immigration authorities may well be going too far, for at that stage they had been in the United Kingdom only since May, a period of about six months, but that remark does not alter the propriety of his decision as to June 2016, by which time more than a years residence had passed, during which the children had clearly become integrated parts of English life.
For my part, I recognise the force of the contention that the judges error about the potential significance of what was said at the time of the November application to the immigration authorities infected his decision that there was no combination of intention not to return and outward manifestation of that decision until the following summer.
But for the reasons given above I conclude that that infection did not in fact take place.
It follows that by the time the children were retained in the United Kingdom inconsistently with Fathers rights of custody they had become habitually resident here.
That being so, the application under the Abduction Convention cannot succeed.
The consequence is that Mothers appeal against the order of the Court of Appeal must succeed, whilst Fathers cross appeal in relation to the finding as to habitual residence must be dismissed.
LORD KERR: (dissenting)
There is much in Lord Hughes judgment with which I agree.
Like Lord Wilson (with whose proposed disposal I fully agree) I would have dismissed the appeal.
There is perhaps a slight difference in emphasis between us, however, on the reasons that the appeal should be dismissed and, on that account, I add this short judgment.
When dealing with the effect of wrongful retention of a child by what has been described as a travelling parent, one can recognise that various factors are in play.
One starts with the proposition that, in general, it should not be possible for a child to acquire or for a parent to bestow habitual residence after the time that wrongful retention begins.
A strong imperative exists for discouraging travelling parents from the view that they can avoid the consequences of the Abduction Convention by concealing an intention to retain the child in the country to which they have travelled, on the pretext, for instance, of a holiday of fixed or limited duration.
To insist that wrongful retention can only occur at the end of an agreed period of absence could lead to absurd results; would encourage dissimulation on the part of the travelling parent; and would permit habitual residence to be acquired by the perpetration of deception on the left behind parent.
As against that, it is often difficult retrospectively to decide when wrongful retention began.
It may be the outcome of a gradual change of attitude on the part of the travelling parent.
Retention in the country travelled to may be acquiesced in by the left behind parent, even if she or he suspects that the travelling parent may be in the process of forming an intention not to return the child to the country where she or he was habitually resident.
If the child has formed relationships in the travelled to country and is well settled there (albeit as a result of the travelling parents covertly formed intention not to return him or her) do the best interests of the child obtrude on the question of where her or his habitual residence should be found to be?
No final answers to these potentially difficult questions need be given in the present appeal.
I raise them solely to illustrate the extremely trying problems that can arise in this fraught area.
How is the fact (and the time of onset) of wrongful retention to be established? Clearly the intention of