 or seven weeks earlier.
The difference does not affect the outcome of the present dispute, but it is relevant that Father raised the question in emails to Mother whether she intended to return in May or June 2016.
She did not answer the question.
On the basis of the extension she gave notice to her Australian employer and looked for work in England.
In September 2015 she enrolled the older child at a local pre school.
The children had entered England on six month visitor visas, so steps needed to be taken to regularise the longer stay now contemplated.
What Mother then did loomed large at the hearing before the judge.
Without telling Father she applied on 2 November 2015 for British citizenship for the children.
She engaged solicitors to make the application.
Those solicitors wrote on her behalf to the United Kingdom immigration authorities on 4 November 2015.
In the course of a long letter they asserted that the marriage had irretrievably broken down, that Mother had been the object of repeated domestic abuse which had, moreover affected the elder child adversely, that she had been effectively forced not to return to Australia in order to safeguard herself and the children and that the children could not return to Australia because there was nowhere safe for them to go.
The letter added: It cannot be in doubt that the childrens centre of life is, and will be, in the UK where the children are registered as requested.
Meanwhile in continuing correspondence between the parents, Father pressed Mother on her expected date of return.
On 11 February 2016 she wrote saying that she did not know what her plans were but Short term I will not be returning in May. She added I will not base my return to Australia at your demand.
Later, Father referred her to the Abduction Convention and instructed solicitors who wrote formally to ask Mother when she planned to return.
She replied in June 2016: Thank you for allowing me the time to seek professional advice I can confirm that I intend to remain in the UK for the short term.
In due course both parents gave oral evidence at the hearing before the judge of Fathers application under the Abduction Convention.
By then it was accepted that Mother did not propose to return.
The issue of when she had so decided was much in contention.
The judges conclusions on the topic are considered below: [2016] EWHC 3535 (Fam).
But Mothers own case was that by April 2016 she had felt that we wouldnt be going back.
That meant that on any view there had been a decision not to return before the expiry of the agreed year of stay in England.
That gives rise to the second general question in this case, namely: whether and when such a decision can make the retention in the destination country wrongful for the purposes of the Abduction Convention before the expiry of any agreed or sanctioned term of residence there.
The judge also had to make findings as to the place of the childrens habitual residence.
The details of his conclusions are set out below, but he found that they were habitually resident in England and Wales by at the latest the end of June 2016, which was the last possible date for the expiry of the agreed year of stay.
He added that in his view it was eminently arguable that they had acquired habitual residence significantly before that date.
Those findings give rise to the first general question in this case, namely: what is the effect on an application under the Abduction Convention if the child has become habitually resident in the destination (requested) State before the act relied on as a wrongful removal or retention occurs.
The significance of the two general questions
In the simple paradigm case of wrongful removal, one parent will have taken the child from the State where s/he is habitually resident to a destination State.
Similarly,