 the 1996 Convention. article 2(11) provides a definition of wrongful removal and retention which, although not in identical words to article 3 of the Abduction Convention, achieves the same result, and in particular makes the test for wrongfulness the law of the State of habitual residence immediately before the act relied upon.
Article 10 prolongs the jurisdiction of that State in the event of a wrongful removal or retention in much the same terms as does article 7 of the 1996 Convention.
As with the 1996 Convention, the intention is plainly to preserve the regime of the Abduction Convention, and article 11 goes on to make supplemental provision for the handling of applications under it.
It is revealing that it does so after introduction in the following terms: (1) Where a person [etc] having rights of custody applies to the competent authorities in a member state to deliver a judgment on the basis of [the Abduction Convention] in order to obtain the return of a child that has been wrongfully removed or retained in a member state other than the member state where the child was habitually resident immediately before the removal or retention, paragraphs 2 to 8 shall apply. (Emphasis supplied) Of course, this provision applies only as between States members which are of the EU.
But there is no reason why such States alone should adopt a rule that the requested State must be a different one from the State of habitual residence immediately before the wrongful act.
On the contrary, the aim is clearly to preserve the scheme of the Abduction Convention.
The words other than the member state where the child was habitually resident immediately before the removal or retention plainly assume that this is the scheme implicit in the Abduction Convention.
Recital 17 to the Regulation, which expresses the intention that the Abduction Convention should continue to operate, also assumes a difference between the State of habitual residence and the State requested to make a return order.
There are other examples of legislative provisions making explicit the principle that return under the Abduction Convention presupposes return from a state other than that of habitual residence at the time of the wrongful act.
In New Zealand, the Convention is given effect by the Care of Children Act 2004.
In that Act, removal includes retention, in each case as defined in article 3 of the Convention.
Section 103 provides: (1) The Authority must take action under the Convention to secure the prompt return of the child to a Contracting State other than New Zealand if the Authority receives, in respect of a child, an application claiming (a) that the child is present in New Zealand; and (b) that the child was removed from that other Contracting State in breach of the applicants rights of custody in respect of the child; and that at the time of the removal those rights of (c) custody were actually being exercised by the applicant, or would have been so exercised but for the removal; and (d) that the child was habitually resident in that other Contracting State immediately before the removal. (Emphasis supplied) In Australia the equivalent Family Law (Child Abduction Convention) Regulations 1986 provide by regulation 16(1A)(b) that one of the conditions for an order for return is that the child habitually resided in a convention country immediately before the childs removal to, or retention in, Australia.
In re H (Minors) (Abduction: Custody Rights), In re S (Minors) (Abduction: Custody Rights) [1991] 2 AC 476 the House of Lords addressed the question whether wrongful removal and wrongful retention were mutually exclusive concepts; the issue arose in the context of the commencement date for the 1985 Act as between the two States involved.
The House held that for the purposes of