 in the simple paradigm case of wrongful retention, one parent will have travelled with the child from the State of habitual residence to the destination State, for example for an agreed fortnights holiday (and thus without the removal being wrongful), but will then wrongfully have refused to return.
In each of those paradigm cases, the child will have remained habitually resident in the home State.
An application under the Abduction Convention will be made in the destination (or requested) State for the return of the child to the State of habitual residence.
The return will be a summary one, without investigation of the merits of any dispute between the parents as to custody, access or any other issue relating to the upbringing of the child (article 16).
Such merits decisions are for the courts of the State of the childs habitual residence.
In some cases, however, it is possible that by the time of the act relied upon as a wrongful removal or retention, the child may have acquired habitual residence in the destination State.
It is perhaps improbable in the case of removal, but it is not in the case of retention.
It may particularly happen if the stay in the destination State is more than just a holiday and lasts long enough for the child to become integrated into the destination State.
It is the more likely to happen if the travelling parent determines, however improperly, to stay, and takes steps to integrate the child in the destination State.
Even in the case of wrongful removal it may be possible to imagine such a situation if, for example, there had been successive periods of residence in the destination State, followed by a removal from the State of origin which infringed the rights of custody of the left behind parent.
In England and Wales at least, this possibility did not in practice arise in the past, since it was regarded as axiomatic that one parent could not by unilateral action alter the habitual residence of the child.
This proposition dated from a dictum of Lord Donaldson MR in In re J (A Minor) (Abduction: Custody Rights) [1990] 2 AC 562, 572, and the decision of Wall J in In re S (Minors) (Child Abduction: Wrongful Retention) [1994] Fam 70, which was approved by the Court of Appeal in In re M (Abduction: Habitual Residence) [1996] 1 FLR 887, 892, and, as Baroness Hale explained in A v A (Children: Habitual Residence) [2014] AC 1 at para 39, it was thereafter taken for granted.
Such a proposition is, however, not generally adopted in other countries, including the United States, sits uneasily with the equally axiomatic principle that habitual residence is a question of fact, not law, and is difficult to accommodate within the European approach which requires an examination of integration, as exemplified in Proceedings brought by A (Case C 523/07) [2010] Fam 42 and Mercredi v Chaffe (Case C 497/10PPU) [2012] Fam 22, and which is binding on this country via Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 (Brussels II Revised): see the analysis of Baroness Hale in A v A.
It was recognised in In re H (Children) [2015] 1 WLR 863 that such a rule could not survive.
If the habitual residence of the child may have changed to the destination State by the time of the wrongful act of removal or retention relied upon, then it becomes necessary to know whether the summary procedure of the Abduction Convention remains available in such a case or does not.
Hence the first general question.
If the answer is that it is not available, because the Abduction