 in the present case to attempt to foresee such eventualities, or to consider whether fundamental failures to observe conditions as to the care or upbringing of the child might amount to such pre emptive denial.
It is enough to say that if there is a pre emptive denial it would be inconsistent with the aim of the Abduction Convention to provide a swift, prompt and summary remedy designed to restore the status quo ante to insist that the left behind parent wait until the aeroplane lands on the due date, without the child disembarking, before any complaint can be made about such infringement.
It is no doubt true that a travelling parent might change his mind after an act of repudiation.
But so he might after a failure to return on the due date, and commonly does when faced by notice of the provisions of the Abduction Convention, or by an application under it.
So also he might, after making an unsanctioned move to an unagreed country, or after embarking on an unsanctioned programme of religious conversion.
The possibility of a change of heart is no reason not to recognise that the heart needs changing if rights of custody in the left behind parent are to be respected.
On the contrary, the desirability of inducing a prompt change of mind is an argument for recognising a repudiatory retention when and if it occurs.
Proof that it has occurred is a matter of evidence, and what manifestation of it must be demonstrated is considered below.
If a concept of repudiatory retention exists, it would indeed follow that once such an act occurs, the article 12 12 month clock would begin to run at that point.
If the left behind parent knows of the repudiation, there is every reason why it should run.
If he does not, the possibility exists that the 12 month period partly, or sometimes wholly, may pass before he finds out and can make an application under the Abduction Convention.
But it is a mistake to think of the 12 month period as a limitation period, of the kind designed in Limitation Acts to protect a wrongdoer from claims which are too old to be pursued.
It is not a protection for the wrongdoer.
Rather, it is a provision designed in the interests of the child.
It operates to limit the mandatory summary procedure of the Convention to cases where the child has not been too long in the destination State since the wrongful act relied on.
Where it applies, it does not prevent a summary return; it merely makes it discretionary.
In the event that an act of wrongful repudiatory retention had been concealed, that concealment might well be one factor in the decision whether to order return or not.
In other cases, the settlement of the child might be so well established that notwithstanding the wrong done by the travelling parent, it is too late to disturb it.
Such decisions are fact sensitive ones which are properly left to the court of the requested State.
The risk of the 12 month period running without the knowledge of the left behind parent is in any event distinctly less fatal to his interests than the risk of the childs habitual residence being changed without his knowledge, or indeed with his knowledge but without him being able to invoke the Convention because the due date for return has not yet arrived.
The latter risk creates a complete bar to return under the Convention; the former a discretionary one.
The concern that Abduction Convention applications may become longer and more complicated is a point well made.
It was convincingly voiced in the Court of Appeal by Black LJ.
It is of the essence of such cases that the remedy is a swift and summary one.
Oral evidence should be the exception, not the rule.
But some limited disputes of fact are bound to arise.
In the kind of case where retention is in question, it will often be critical to