 home State, abandoning his job there, and obtaining residency in the new State for himself and the child on the basis of an undertaking that they will both remain there indefinitely.
No doubt other examples could be postulated.
The question is whether, if such a thing occurs, there is then and there a wrongful retention, or whether his retention of the child cannot in law be wrongful until the date agreed for return arrives and, as it was graphically put in the American case of Falk v Sinclair (2009) 692 F Supp 2d 147, the aeroplane lands and the child is not among those who disembark.
There is some difficulty in devising a suitable shorthand for the possibility of wrongful retention in advance of the due date for return.
One which has been used is anticipatory retention.
This is certainly convenient but it may lead to misconceptions.
If early wrongful retention is a legal possibility, it is not because there is an anticipation of retention.
On the contrary, the child is retained in the destination State from the moment of arrival, just as he is removed from the home State at the moment of departure.
If the departure and arrival are permitted by agreement with the left behind parent, or sanctioned by the court of the home State, they are still respectively removal and retention, but they are not wrongful.
So what is under consideration is a retention which becomes wrongful before the due date for return.
The key to the concept of early wrongful retention, if it exists in law, must be that the travelling parent is thereafter denying, or repudiating, the rights of custody of the left behind parent and, instead of honouring them, is insisting on unilaterally deciding where the child will live.
In the absence of a better expression, the term which will be used here will, for that reason, be repudiatory retention.
That is not to import contractual principles lock stock and barrel into the concept, for the analogy with a contract is only partial.
It is simply to attempt a shorthand description.
The expert and thorough analysis of the known cases in several different jurisdictions which was undertaken in this case by Black LJ, as she then was, cannot be improved upon.
It is to be found at paras 28 97 of her judgment [2017] EWCA Civ 980; [2017] 3 FCR 719.
On this part of her judgment the Court of Appeal was unanimous.
It shows that a concept of repudiatory retention has been recognised in some jurisdictions, and for many years now: early examples included Wall Js decision in In re S (Minors) (Abduction: Wrongful Retention) [1994] Fam 70 and the Canadian case of Snetzko v Snetzko (1996) CanLII 11326.
Other cases have rejected the concept, for example in Australia.
There are cases going either way in the United States.
It follows that there is no generally accepted international practice on the point, nor is there clear authority either way in this jurisdiction.
In those circumstances it is necessary for this court to address the principle of the suggested concept.
The Court of Appeal concluded unanimously that there was a concept of repudiatory retention known to the law.
It divided, however, as to whether it could exist only when the repudiation was communicated to the left behind parent (or at least manifested by action), as Black LJ held, or whether such communication was not necessary in law, as Sharp and Thirlwall LJJ concluded.
In considering the existence of the concept, it is necessary also to address how repudiatory retention, if it exists at all, may occur.
The helpful submissions made to this court identified six suggested reasons why such a concept is inconsistent with the Abduction Convention and not known to the law