 a persuasive construction if one takes into account the general scheme of the Convention.
Nor is it the way that the Convention has been operated over the nearly 40 years of its life.
Nor is this construction consistent with the way in which the Convention has been treated by subsequent multi lateral instruments in the general field of the conflict of laws in relation to disputes about the upbringing of children.
By the time of the Abduction Convention, habitual residence was already established as the principal internationally recognised basis for according jurisdiction relating to the upbringing of children.
At any rate by the time of the 1961 Hague Convention on the Protection of Infants, habitual residence was, together with in some respects the law of the childs nationality, the principal basis for jurisdiction (see article 1).
By the time of the Abduction Convention, Professor Prez Veras report was saying (in para 19) that the Convention: rests implicitly on the principle that any debate on the merits of the question, ie on custody rights, should take place before the competent authorities in the State where the child had its habitual residence prior to its removal (See also para 66 which repeats the point.) Since then the principle has become even more firmly entrenched.
The 1996 Hague Convention on Jurisdiction, Applicable Law, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in respect of Parental Responsibility and Measures for the Protection of Children (the 1996 Convention) accords jurisdiction, by article 5, to the State for the time being of habitual residence, subject only to few qualifications.
So, for states members of the European Union (EU), does Regulation 2201/2003 (Brussels II Revised) by article 8.
The entire scheme of the Abduction Convention is to provide a summary remedy which negates the pre emptive force of wrongful removal or retention.
The aim was also to defeat forum shopping.
This is made clear by Professor Prez Veras report, especially at paras 14 15. 14.
Now, even if the [left behind parent] acts quickly, that is to say manages to avoid the consolidation through lapse of time of the situation brought about by the removal of the child, the abductor will hold the advantage, since it is he who has chosen the forum in which the case is to be decided, a forum which, in principle, he regards as more favourable to his own claims. 15.
To conclude, it can firmly be stated that the problem with which the Convention deals together with all the drama implicit in the fact that it is concerned with the protection of children in international relations derives all of its legal importance from the possibility of individuals establishing legal and jurisdictional links which are more or less artificial.
In fact, resorting to this expedient, an individual can change the applicable law and obtain a judicial decision favourable to him.
Admittedly, such a decision, especially one coexisting with others to the opposite effect issued by the other forum, will enjoy only a limited geographical validity, but in any event it bears a legal title sufficient to legalize a factual situation which none of the legal systems involved wished to see brought about.
With that aim in mind, the framers of the Convention deliberately abjured a treaty which provided for recognition or enforcement of the decisions of the State of habitual residence.
Paragraph 36 of the report makes this clear: 36.
Secondly, the Convention is certainly not a treaty on the recognition or enforcement of decisions on custody.
This option, which gave rise to lengthy debates during the first meeting of the Special Commission, was deliberately rejected.
Due to the substantive consequences which flow from the recognition of a foreign judgment, such a treaty is ordinarily hedged around by guarantees and exceptions which can prolong the proceedings.
Now, where the removal of a child is concerned, the time factor is of decisive importance