 underlie the Convention: wrongful removal, wrongful retention, rights of custody and return.
The principal provisions which require attention in the present case, apart from the preamble and article 1, set out above, are articles 3, 4, 5, 12 and 16.
So far as relevant, they say: Article 3 The removal or the retention of a child is to be considered wrongful where (a) it is in breach of rights of custody attributed to a person, an institution or any other body, either jointly or alone, under the law of the State in which the child was habitually resident immediately before the removal or retention; and (b) at the time of removal or retention those rights were actually exercised, either jointly or alone, or would have been so exercised but for the removal or retention.
Article 4 The Convention shall apply to any child who was habitually resident in a Contracting State immediately before any breach of custody or access rights.
The Convention shall cease to apply when the child attains the age of 16 years.
Article 5 For the purposes of this Convention [rights of access] (a) rights of custody shall include rights relating to the care of the person of the child and, in particular, the right to determine the child's place of residence; (b) Article 12 Where a child has been wrongfully removed or retained in terms of article 3 and, at the date of the commencement of the proceedings before the judicial or administrative authority of the Contracting State where the child is, a period of less than one year has elapsed from the date of the wrongful removal or retention, the authority concerned shall order the return of the child forthwith.
The judicial or administrative authority, even where the proceedings have been commenced after the expiration of the period of one year referred to in the preceding paragraph, shall also order the return of the child, unless it is demonstrated that the child is now settled in its new environment.
Article 16 After receiving notice of a wrongful removal or retention of a child in the sense of article 3, the judicial or administrative authorities of the Contracting State to which the child has been removed or in which it has been retained shall not decide on the merits of rights of custody until it has been determined that the child is not to be returned under this Convention or unless an application under this Convention is not lodged within a reasonable time following receipt of the notice.
The facts
The mother, although born in Canada, was brought up in England and is originally of British nationality.
The father is Australian.
Mother went to live in Australia in 2008.
There she met, and later married, the father.
She took Australian citizenship in 2014 and so now has dual British/Australian nationality.
Two children were born to them in 2012 and 2014.
By the end of 2014 the marriage was in difficulties.
Mother was on maternity leave from her job at the time.
She told Father that she wanted to make a trip to England with the children before going back to work.
Although initially reluctant, he agreed to an eight week visit.
Mother and the children came to England on 4 May 2015 with return tickets then scheduled for 24 June.
They went to stay with the maternal grandmother, where they have since remained.
Discussions between Mother and Father then resulted in Father agreeing to an extension of the eight week visit.
Initially, Father agreed to a four week extension.
But then, on 28 June 2015 he sent Mother an email which said: For the happiness of yourself & the children & for moving on with our lives I am in agreement that u n the children stay in the UK for a year.
That email left open whether the year ran from its date or from Mothers first arrival six