 advised not to return to Australia; that it was necessary that she remain in England to safeguard herself and her children; and that there was no doubt that the childrens centre of life is and will be in the UK.
What the judge should have asked himself was, is it conceivable that such a letter would be sent if the mother had not already decided that she and the children would not return to Australia?.
Instead, he elided that question by concentrating on the circumstance that the husband must have known that the mother would have to do something to regularise the childrens continued stay in England.
The important question was why the letter was couched in the terms that it was, if it did not reflect the mothers settled intention to remain here.
That question was never asked by the judge and it has not been possible to address it since.
It needs to be asked and satisfactorily answered before any conclusion as to the mothers intention in November 2015 about returning her children to Australia can be I consider that this court should have dismissed the mothers appeal. reached.
That is why, in my opinion, remittal of the case for a proper hearing is unavoidable.
LORD WILSON: (dissenting)
I respectfully agree with the exposition of law in the judgment of Lord Hughes.
I disagree with him only when, from para 52 onwards under the heading This case: the judges decision, he reaches the conclusion that the mothers appeal should be allowed.
The trial judge (the judge) held that the law did not recognise a repudiatory retention and that the mothers retention of the children in the UK became wrongful only on 28 June 2016, which he found to have been the agreed date for their return to Australia.
The judge added, however, that, even if the law did recognise a repudiatory retention, he did not consider that it had arisen in the present case, whether in November 2015 or in April 2016 or at all.
As Lord Hughes has explained, the Court of Appeal was right to hold that the law does indeed recognise a repudiatory retention.
The majority (Sharp and Thirlwall LJJ) proceeded to hold that the judges conclusion that in any event it had not arisen in the present case had been flawed; and they ordered that the case be remitted for further inquiry in that regard, particularly in relation to circumstances in November 2015.
In my view the majority were right to order that the possibility of a repudiatory retention, particularly in November 2015, required further to be explored.
It required further to be explored by reference in particular to the mothers intention; to the need for some objectively identifiable act of repudiation; and to whether, immediately before any repudiatory retention, the children had already acquired their habitual residence in the UK.
Although, like the majority in the Court of Appeal, I will focus principally on circumstances in November 2015, I wish briefly to address the possibility of a repudiatory retention of the children on the part of the mother in April 2016.
The judge found: I am satisfied that as the months went by the mother gradually came to the conclusion that she and the children should remain in England.
She had reached that conclusion by around April though it was not communicated to the father.
So why was there no repudiatory retention in April 2016? In para 55 above Lord Hughes explains that Mothers internal thinking could not by itself amount to such.
If she had had such an intention in November, the application to the immigration authorities would have been capable of amounting to an objective manifestation of her repudiation, but the judge believed her when she said that she did not.
Today this court decides, with hesitant concurrence on the part of Lord Kerr, that the concept of