 .
Hence the alternative scheme adopted, for mandatory summary return.
Hence also the critical rule in article 16 that the courts of the requested State are to abstain from exercising any jurisdiction which they may have (for example based upon the presence of the child) to make a merits decision.
This underlying rationale of the scheme of the Abduction Convention was recognised by this court in In re E (Children) (Abduction: Custody Appeal) [2011] UKSC 27; [2012] 1 AC 144.
Baroness Hale and Lord Wilson observed at para 8: The first object of the Convention is to deter either parent (or indeed anyone else) from taking the law into their own hands and pre empting the result of any dispute between them about the future upbringing of their children.
If an abduction does take place, the next object is to restore the children as soon as possible to their home country, so that any dispute can be determined there.
The left behind parent should not be put to the trouble and expense of coming to the requested state in order for factual disputes to be resolved there.
The abducting parent should not gain an unfair advantage by having that dispute determined in the place to which she has come.
The whole point of the scheme adopted was to leave the merits to be decided by the courts of the place of the childs habitual residence.
The preamble makes this clear in almost the first words of the Convention.
If, however, the child has by the time of the act relied on as wrongful become habitually resident in the requested State, then that State will be the appropriate place for the merits of any custody dispute to be resolved.
If the requested State is the habitual residence of the child, there can be no place for a summary return to somewhere else, without a merits based decision, still less for such to be mandatory.
That would be so whether or not the removal or retention was, judged by the law of the requested State, as the State of habitual residence, wrongful, for even if it were, it would remain open to either party to ask the courts of that State to review the future plans for the upbringing of the child.
This understanding of the scheme of the Abduction Convention is reflected in the provisions of both the 1996 Convention and Brussels II Revised.
A large number of nations are party to these two multinational instruments, but not nearly so many as are party to the Abduction Convention.
These two instruments are concerned, unlike the Abduction Convention, with recognition and enforcement.
But they are scrupulous to ensure that wherever possible they are consistent with the Abduction Convention, whose scheme they very plainly seek to preserve.
The 1996 Convention adopts, by article 7(2) a definition of wrongful removal and retention in the same words as article 3 of the Abduction Convention.
Substantively, article 7(1) provides for cases of wrongful removal and retention a limited exception to the ordinary rule in article 5 that jurisdiction moves with the habitual residence of the child.
In effect, the State of habitual residence immediately before the wrongful removal or retention keeps jurisdiction until not only habitual residence has shifted but also there has been an opportunity for the summary return provided for by the Abduction Convention.
The effect, plainly intended, is to preserve the regime of the Abduction Convention, and in particular the mandatory summary return.
But if, at the time of the wrongful act, the requested State had become the State of habitual residence, the extension by article 7(1) to the jurisdiction of the previous State of habitual residence would have no application and the requested State would have sole jurisdiction; in such an event, there could be no question of a mandatory summary return without consideration of the merits.
Brussels II Revised adopts a similar structure to