 Regulation [vis Brussels II Revised] provides that paragraphs 2 8 of that article are to apply where the holder of rights of custody applies to the competent authorities of a member state to deliver a judgment on the basis of the 1980 Hague Convention in order to obtain the return of a child that has been wrongfully removed or retained in a member state other than the member state where the child was habitually resident immediately before the wrongful removal or retention.
It follows that this is not the case if the child was not habitually resident in the member state of origin immediately before the removal or retention.
It is certainly true that this paragraph proceeds from the words of article 11(1) of Brussels II Revised.
But the application which the father had made was under the Abduction Convention.
He had referred also to Brussels II Revised, but this Regulation does not contain the duty to return a child; what it does is to recognise that the Abduction Convention does contain such a duty, and by article 11 it provides supplementary rules for how this duty is to be performed.
En route to its conclusion, the CJEU emphasised, first, that the Regulation and the Abduction Convention were to be uniform, that is to say consistent (para 58), and secondly that a decision to return under the Abduction Convention is not a decision on the merits and thus there can be no occasion for a conflict of jurisdiction between the requesting and requested State (paras 37 and 40 42).
It left to the Irish court the decision of fact whether and when habitual residence had been established in Ireland.
It may be that its proposition that for a return order under the Abduction Convention to be made it was essential that the child was habitually resident at the time of the wrongful act in the State of origin, as distinct from some State other than the requested State, might be wider than necessary, for it may not have considered the possibility of habitual residence in an intermediate State, which did not arise for debate.
But what is abundantly clear is that it is only under the Abduction Convention that a summary order for return is provided for, and that such an order could not be made if the child was, by the time of the wrongful act relied upon, habitually resident in the requested State.
There is no hint in the courts decision that Brussels II Revised has in any sense modified the fundamentals of the scheme of the Abduction Convention for EU members; quite the contrary.
In the later case of OL v PQ (2017) (Case C 111/17PPU), a different chamber of the CJEU reached a similar conclusion.
The court held that a child born in Greece was habitually resident there, despite the originally Italian home of her parents, and that in consequence an order under the Abduction Convention for return from Greece to Italy could not be made by the Greek court.
At para 38 the court said: It is clear from those provisions that the concept of habitual residence constitutes a key element in assessing whether an application for return is well founded.
Such an application can succeed only if a child was, immediately before the alleged removal or retention, habitually resident in the member state to which return is sought.
The nearest case proffered as any indication to the contrary is In re G (A Minor) (Enforcement of Access Abroad) [1993] Fam 216.
There, the Court of Appeal held that a Canadian resident father could use the Abduction Convention (article 21) to enforce his Canadian given rights of access in relation to a child who was habitually resident in England by the time the mother declined to comply with them.
But that was not a case involving any question of return.
The provisions of the Convention in relation to access are notably more fluid and flexible.
They simply