 require the central authorities to facilitate co operation with a view to preserving access rights.
They make no demands of the courts of the requested State and to the extent that they contemplate that an application may be made there, they appear to assume that those courts will conduct a merits hearing.
They provide no guide to the scheme of the Convention in relation to applications for orders for summary return.
These various examples of the practice as to the application of the Abduction Convention thus all point in the same direction.
The Convention cannot be invoked if by the time of the alleged wrongful act, whether removal or retention, the child is habitually resident in the State where the request for return is lodged.
In such a case, that State has primary jurisdiction to make a decision on the merits, based on the habitual residence of the child and there is no room for a mandatory summary return elsewhere without such a decision.
It may of course be that in making a merits decision, the court of the requested State might determine that it is in the best interests of the child to be returned to his previous home State, and indeed might do so without detailed examination of all possible evidence, as the English courts may do (see In re J (A Child) (Custody Rights: Jurisdiction) [2005] UKHL 40; [2006] 1 AC 80).
But so to do is very different from making a summary order for return without consideration of the merits under the Abduction Convention.
The submissions made to this court addressed also the separate question of whether a return under the Abduction Convention, if made, must always and only be made to the State of habitual residence immediately before the wrongful act.
It is to be noted that article 12 does not contain any such restriction, and that Professor Prez Veras report at para 110 makes clear that the decision not to do so was deliberate.
The reason given is that whilst ordinarily that State will be the obvious State to which return should be made, there may be circumstances in which it would be against the interests of the child for that to be the destination of return.
The example given is of the applicant custodial parent who has, in the meantime, moved to a different State.
The propriety, in such circumstances, of an order returning the child to the new home state of the custodial parent is not in issue in this case.
For the reasons given above, the silence of article 12 on the destination of a return order is of no help on the issue which does arise, namely whether an order for return can be made if at the time of the wrongful act the child was habitually resident in the requested State.
It is however to be observed in passing that the unusual circumstances envisaged in para 110 of the Prez Vera report were held at first instance to have arisen in O v O (Child Abduction: Return to Third Country) [2013] EWHC 2970 (Fam); [2014] Fam 87 and there did result in an order for return to the new home State.
The second general question: when does wrongful retention occur?
This was the question of principle on which leave to appeal to this court was given.
If the child has been removed from the home State by agreement with the left behind parent for a limited period (and thus the removal is not wrongful), can there be a wrongful retention before the agreed period of absence expires? The classic example of the possibility is where the travelling parent announces, half way through the agreed period (say of a sabbatical year of study for the parent) that he will not under any circumstances return the child in accordance with the agreement he made.
He might do more.
He might effectively make it impracticable to return, by, for example, selling his house in the