This appeal concerns the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction (25 October 1980) (the Abduction Convention).
It raises general questions relating to: the place which the habitual residence of the child occupies in the (1) scheme of that Convention, and (2) whether and when a wrongful retention of a child may occur if the travelling parent originally left the home State temporarily with the consent of the left behind parent or under court permission, and the agreed or stipulated time for return has not yet arrived.
In addition, the facts of the present case raise particular questions whether the trial judges conclusions were properly open to him upon: (a) the habitual residence of the children in the case; and (b) whether a wrongful retention in fact occurred, and if so when.
The 1980 Hague Abduction Convention
The Abduction Convention is in force for some 97 States.
Its preamble records the desire of those States: to protect children internationally from the harmful effects of their wrongful removal or retention and to establish procedures to ensure their prompt return to the State of their habitual residence Article 1 states the objects of the Convention as follows: to secure the prompt return of children wrongfully (a) removed to or retained in any Contracting State; and (b) to ensure that rights of custody and of access under the law of one Contracting State are effectively respected in the other Contracting States.
The general scheme of the Convention is to enable a left behind parent to make this application in the State to which a child has been taken, seeking return of the child.
States are required to set up Central Authorities to transmit and receive such applications.
Where the removal from the home State, or the retention in the destination State is wrongful, the courts of the recipient State are required by article 12 to order the return of the child forthwith.
Apart from a saving provision in article 20 which permits refusal to return where such would amount to a breach of the requested States fundamental principles of human rights, that obligation to return is subject to very limited exceptions which, if present, enable (but do not require) return not to be ordered.
Those exceptions are found in article 13 (rights of custody not being exercised; consent or acquiescence of the left behind parent; grave risk that return would expose the child to physical or psychological harm or would place him/her in an intolerable situation; childs objections), and in article 12 (child has been in the recipient State for one year from the wrongful removal or retention and is now settled there).
Where prompt notice of wrongful removal or retention is received, the recipient State is required by article 16 to abstain from any decision on the merits of rights of custody, unless it is determined that return is not to be ordered.
Moreover, States are required to act fast on any request.
By article 11 an initial period of six weeks is stipulated, and the applicant or his Central Authority are entitled to an explanation from the recipient State if that period is exceeded.
Thus the return is summary and its object is to enable merits decisions as to the childs future to be made in the correct State, rather than in the State to which the child has been wrongfully taken, or in which he/she has been wrongfully retained.
The general purposes and scheme of the Convention are expanded upon in an explanatory report by Professor Elisa Prez Vera on the work of the drafting conference, which report accompanied the original framing of the Convention; it is accordingly an aid to construction recognised in international law and in particular under article 32 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties (1969).
In England and Wales the Convention is given domestic effect by the Child Abduction and Custody Act 1985, section 1(2).
Four key concepts