 the Abduction Convention the two concepts were mutually exclusive, and that because article 12 required it to be possible to calculate the 12 month period from a wrongful retention, as well as from a wrongful removal, the former could not be regarded as simply continuing, but had to have an identified date, in effect its beginning.
Giving the sole speech, Lord Brandon explained, at 498G: The preamble of the Convention shows that it is aimed at the protection of children internationally (my emphasis) from wrongful removal or retention. article 1(a) shows that the first object of the Convention is to secure the prompt return to the state of their habitual residence of children in two categories: (1) children who have been wrongfully removed from the state of their habitual residence to another contracting state; and (2) children who have been wrongfully retained in a contracting state other than the state of their habitual residence instead of being returned to the latter state.
The Convention is not concerned with children who have been wrongfully removed or retained within the borders of the state of their habitual residence. (Emphasis of other supplied) That echoed an observation of Lord Donaldson MR in the same case in the Court of Appeal.
He had said, [1991] 2 AC 476, 486F: plainly the Act and Convention can only apply if the child is found in a different State from that in which it was habitually resident The question raised in the present case did not arise for decision in In re H; In re S and so the observations noted were not the result of argument on the point now at issue.
They were, however, a considered analysis of the scheme of the Abduction Convention, and they have been consistently followed in England and Wales ever since.
In consequence in a number of cases, which it is not necessary to list, applications under the Convention have failed where the child was habitually resident in England and Wales by the time of the wrongful act relied upon.
The researches of counsel, for which we are very grateful, have disclosed that a similar approach has been adopted in Scotland, France, Israel, Switzerland, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and various United States courts whether federal or state.
Whilst those surveys cannot by their nature be exhaustive of every decision in every jurisdiction, what is significant is that none of them, including those conducted on behalf of those arguing against the currently assumed analysis (Father and the Intervener), has unearthed any decision to the contrary.
In C v M (2014) (Case C 376/14PPU); [2015] Fam 116 the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) adopted the same analysis.
The French Father had made application to the Irish Court for the return of children who had been taken to Ireland by Mother.
The background was an initial decision of the French court permitting relocation to Ireland, which had been appealed promptly.
Mother had moved notwithstanding the pending appeal, a stay having been refused to Father, and subsequently the French decision had been reversed by the appeal court.
The Irish court was minded to find that the child had become at some stage habitually resident in Ireland.
It referred a number of questions to the CJEU.
The CJEU decided (1) that the initial removal to Ireland had not been wrongful, because of the then extant first instance decision permitting the move (para 44), (2) that the subsequent retention there after the French appellate decision might justify an order for return but (3) this would depend on whether by then the child was habitually resident in Ireland (paras 45 49 and 63).
If habitual residence had by then been established in Ireland, there could be no order for return.
At para 48 the court said: Article 11(1) of the