 repudiation, of the rights of the left behind parent.
Some markers can, however, be put in place. (i) It is difficult if not impossible to imagine a repudiatory retention which does not involve a subjective intention on the part of the travelling parent not to return the child (or not to honour some other fundamental part of the arrangement).
The spectre advanced of a parent being found to have committed a repudiatory retention innocently, for example by making an application for temporary permission to reside in the destination State, is illusory. (ii) A purely internal unmanifested thought on the part of the travelling parent ought properly to be regarded as at most a plan to commit a repudiatory retention and not itself to constitute such.
If it is purely internal, it will probably not come to light in any event, but even supposing that subsequently it were to do so, there must be an objectively identifiable act or acts of repudiation before the retention can be said to be wrongful.
That is so in the case of ordinary retention, and must be so also in the case of repudiatory retention. (iii) That does not mean that the repudiation must be communicated to the left behind parent.
To require that would be to put too great a premium on concealment and deception.
Plainly, some acts may amount to a repudiatory retention, even if concealed from the left behind parent.
A simple example might be arranging for permanent official permission to reside in the destination State and giving an undertaking that the intention was to remain permanently. (iv) There must accordingly be some objectively identifiable act or statement, or combination of such, which manifests the denial, or repudiation, of the rights of custody of the left behind parent.
A declaration of intent to a third party might suffice, but a privately formed decision would not, without more, do so. (v) There is no occasion to re visit the decision of the House of Lords in In re H; In re S (para 28 above) that wrongful retention must be an identifiable event and cannot be regarded as a continuing process because of the need to count forward the 12 month period stipulated in article 12.
That does not mean that the exact date has to be identifiable.
It may be possible to say no more than that wrongful retention had clearly occurred not later than (say) the end of a particular month.
If there is such an identifiable point, it is not possible to adopt the submission made to the Court of Appeal, that the left behind parent may elect to treat as the date of wrongful retention either the date of manifestation of repudiation or the due date for return.
It may of course be permissible for the left behind parent to plead his case in the alternative, but that is a different thing.
When once the actual date of wrongful retention is ascertained, the article 12 period begins to run.
This case: the judges decision
The judge ([2016] EWHC 3535 (Fam)) held that there was no concept of repudiatory retention known to the law.
But he helpfully addressed the facts on the hypothesis that he was wrong about that.
He held that the application to the immigration authorities made on 4 November 2015 did not amount to such a repudiatory retention, because although it was concealed from Father, something had to be done to regularise the stay of the children once it was to last more than their six month visas permitted.
Father, he held, could not properly have objected to such regularisation, even if Mother feared that he might have tried.
There can be no doubt that the judge significantly misdirected himself here.
It was not the application for permission to stay which was potentially significant.
It was what