.
In principle there can only be a single act of wrongful retention and (i) this cannot occur until the due date for return arrives, and is not honoured, because until then there is no breach of the rights of custody of the left behind parent. (ii) In ordinary language retention means continuing to hold or to keep possession; however, until the due date for return arrives, the travelling parents retention is sanctioned and not wrongful. (iii) A repudiatory retention is too uncertain a concept, for the travelling parent may change his mind and return after all on the due date, whatever he may have said or done earlier. (iv) If repudiatory retention were acknowledged, the effect might be to start the clock running before the left behind parent knew about it, with the consequence that the 12 month period stipulated in article 12 might wholly or partly pass and the left behind parent be deprived of or hindered in the right to a certain order for return. (v) Any such concept would be likely to lead to prolonged hearings in applications under the Abduction Convention when it is axiomatic that they should be such as can be dealt with swiftly and summarily. (vi) No such concept is needed because the left behind parent will, if he cannot obtain a summary return order under the Abduction Convention, have other effective remedies.
The crux of the issue lies in the first two contentions, which are different ways of expressing the same point.
If there is no breach of the rights of custody of the left behind parent, then it is clear that the Convention cannot bite; such a breach is essential to activating it, via articles 3 and 12.
It is clearly true that if the two parents agree that the child is to travel abroad for a period, or for that matter if the court of the home State permits such travel by order, the travelling parent first removes, and then retains the child abroad.
It is equally true that both removal and retention are, at that stage, sanctioned and not wrongful.
But to say that there is sanctioned retention is to ask, rather than to answer, the question when such retention may become unsanctioned and wrongful.
When the left behind parent agrees to the child travelling abroad, he is exercising, not abandoning, his rights of custody.
Those rights of custody include the right to be party to any arrangement as to which country the child is to live in.
It is not accurate to say that he gives up a right to veto the childs movements abroad; he exercises that right by permitting such movement on terms.
He has agreed to the travel only on terms that the stay is to be temporary and the child will be returned as agreed.
So long as the travelling parent honours the temporary nature of the stay abroad, he is not infringing the left behind parents rights of custody.
But once he repudiates the agreement, and keeps the child without the intention to return, and denying the temporary nature of the stay, his retention is no longer on the terms agreed.
It amounts to a claim to unilateral decision where the child shall live.
It repudiates the rights of custody of the left behind parent, and becomes wrongful.
The plain purpose of the Abduction Convention is to prevent the travelling parent from pre empting the left behind parent.
The travelling parent who repudiates the temporary nature of the stay and sets about making it indefinite, often putting down the childs roots in the destination State with a view to making it impossible to move him home, is engaging in precisely such an act of pre emption.
It is possible that there might also be other cases of pre emptive denial of the rights of custody of the left behind parent, outside simple refusal to recognise the duty to return on the due date.
It is not, however, necessary