 November 2015.
In the letter from the mothers solicitor, it was asserted that she had been advised not to return to Australia; that it was necessary that she remain in England to safeguard herself and her children; and that there was no doubt that the childrens centre of life is and will be in the UK.
At paras 53 and 59 of his judgment, the judge dealt with the application for British citizenship in the following terse passages: And The solicitors letter to the Home Office dated 4th November sets out information clearly designed to persuade and assumes that the person making the decision will be exercising a discretion.
As the Home Office was not required to exercise a discretion it follows that any misleading or inaccurate information set out in that letter cannot have had any bearing on the decision of the Home Office to approve the childrens applications.
As the father well knew, the children had entered the UK on six month visitors visas.
To enable them to stay for the year to which the father had agreed, some step had to be taken to enable them lawfully to remain in the UK beyond 5th November.
I do not accept that it can properly be said that the mother wrongfully retained the children from 5 November 2015.
From these passages, two reasons for the judges conclusions can be discerned.
First, the circumstance that the Home Office did not have to exercise a discretion meant that any misleading or inaccurate information in the letter should be discounted or ignored.
Secondly, the fact that the father knew that something would have to be done to allow the children to remain in the United Kingdom after 5 November 2015 eliminated any possibility of the mother having wrongfully retained the children from that date.
Neither reason is sustainable.
More importantly, the conclusions that he reached on those matters deflected the judge from recognising and considering the significance of the evidence provided by the November 2015 correspondence as to the mothers intention at that time.
The failure to give proper consideration to that evidence fatally undermines the conclusion reached by the judge as to the time at which the mother had conceived the intention to retain the children in England.
In turn, this extinguishes the basis for his decision that the wrongful retention did not begin until June 2016 and that, by that time, the habitual residence of the children was England.
Why was the judge wrong to decide that, because the Home Office did not have to exercise a discretion, any misleading or inaccurate information in the letter should be discounted or ignored? Because this was nothing to the point.
The significance of the letter in the context of these proceedings was its potential to provide an insight into what the mothers intention was at the time that it was written.
The purpose of the letter, the result that it sought to achieve, was entirely incidental to that critical consideration.
The importance of the letter bore on the question of what the mothers sentiments about the retention of her children in England were at the time of its dispatch.
What it sought to persuade the Home Office of was entirely irrelevant to that question.
But the judge dismissed the letter as a potential source of evidence on that central question.
Until that question is addressed, the conclusion that the mother had not formed any intention wrongfully to retain the children in England in November 2015 is simply insupportable.
Likewise, the fact that the father knew that something would have to be done in November 2015 to ensure that the legal entitlement of the children to remain living in England was preserved, has no direct bearing on the question whether the letter from the mothers solicitor showed that, as early as that date, the mother had decided that she would not return the children to Australia.
The contents of the letter certainly suggested that that was the case.
As already observed (in para 11 above), it had said that she had been