 a repudiatory retention requires not only an intention on the part of the travelling parent to retain a child beyond the agreed date of return but also some objectively identifiable act of repudiation on her part.
If, however curiously (see below), the objectively identifiable act occurred in November 2015 but the requisite intention arose only by around April 2016, how obvious is it that the requirements of the concept were not at any rate by then satisfied?
More importantly, however, the majority in the Court of Appeal were in my view right to set aside the judges finding that the mothers intention to retain the children beyond 28 June 2016 arose only by around April 2016.
For he did not grapple with evidence which seemed clearly to point to her having developed that intention by November 2015.
This evidence was the letter dated 4 November 2015 from the mothers solicitor to the Home Office, which accompanied her applications on behalf of the children to be registered as UK citizens.
The context was that the children had entered the UK on 5 May 2015 pursuant to visitors visas due to expire on 5 November 2015.
In the light of the fathers agreement that they could remain with the mother in the UK until 28 June 2016, it was necessary for their visas to be extended for almost eight months.
But the regularisation of their stay in the UK for that extended period could have been achieved without their becoming UK citizens.
So the mothers applications for them to be registered as UK citizens called for an explanation.
Her failure to notify the father in advance that she was making the applications also called for an explanation and, in cross examination, it received one: she explained that she believed that he would have obstructed them.
To her statement in answer to the fathers application, the mother exhibited her solicitors letter dated 4 November 2015.
In the letter the solicitor said: that the mother was effectively forced not to return to Australia in that she was advised not to return to Australia; that the interests of these two children are best served by their being (a) order to safeguard herself and her children; (b) (c) in the UK; and (d) be, in the UK where the children are registered as requested.
that it cannot be in doubt that the childrens centre of life is, and will
The terms of the letter therefore appear to be entirely inconsistent with an intention on the part of the mother to return with the children to Australia in June 2016 or at all.
In the body of her statement the mother said that her decision not to return the children to Australia in June 2016 had developed over time and had not arisen long before that date.
But she made no comment upon the content of her solicitors letter to the Home Office.
She did not say that any part of it had been written without her approval or was untrue.
On the contrary she said that her solicitor had been utterly clear that there was nothing wrong or deceptive in the applications for citizenship, being an assertion with which she seems there to have associated herself.
In cross examination the mother was taxed, albeit perhaps in terms too general, about the content of the solicitors letter.
She agreed that it did not indicate that she and the children would return to Australia in June 2016.
She denied that, as at the date of the letter, she had formed an intention to stay with them indefinitely in the UK but, whether in re examination or otherwise, she offered no explanation for what her solicitors had said.
In my view the content of the solicitors letter dated 4 November 2015, in support of applications for the children to acquire UK citizenship, represented a major obstacle to any finding that the mother had not by then intended to keep