 considered the application of the competing interpretations to different hypothetical examples.
For the substance of his reasoning it is sufficient to refer to two passages.
In the first (paras 42 43) he distinguished decided cases, including Malcolm, in which there had been an act which in itself caused disadvantage: In the leading cases cited to us the treatment complained of has been an act which itself disadvantages the claimant in some way.
In Clark v Novacold Ltd the claimant was dismissed.
In the Lewisham London Borough Council case Mr Malcolm was evicted.
In Shamoon v Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary [2003] ICR 337 the claimant chief inspector had part of her duties as a manager (the appraisal of subordinates) removed.
The House of Lords held that it was not necessary for her to show financial loss in order to establish a detriment; it was enough that she might reasonably feel demeaned by this decision in the eyes of those over whom she had authority.
Ms Casserley [counsel for Mr Williams] placed the Shamoon case at the forefront of her argument, but I do not consider that it assists her.
Mr Williams case does not turn on a question of reasonable perception.
His pension is undoubtedly less advantageous or less favourable than that of a hypothetical comparator suddenly disabled by a heart attack or stroke.
But it is far more advantageous or favourable than it would be if he had not become permanently incapacitated from his job.
The Shamoon case is not authority for saying that a disabled person has been subjected to unfavourable treatment within the meaning of section 15 simply because he thinks he should have been treated better.
Ms Casserleys argument begins by treating unfavourable as not requiring any comparator but in reality it does depend on a comparator, namely another disabled member of the scheme with a different medical history.
No authority was cited to us to support the view that a disabled person who is treated advantageously in consequence of his disability, but not as advantageously as a person with a different disability or different medical history would have been treated, has a valid claim for discrimination under section 15 subject only to the defence that the treatment was a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.
If such a claim were valid it would call into question the terms of pension schemes or insurance contracts which confer increased benefits in respect of disability caused by injuries sustained at work, or which make special provision for disability caused by one type of disease (for example cancer).
The critical question
In the second (paras 48 49) he rejected what he saw as counsels implicit
comparison with the treatment of different disability: can be put in this way: whether treatment which confers advantages on a disabled person, but would have conferred greater advantages had his disability arisen more suddenly, amounts to unfavourable treatment within section 15.
In agreement with the President of the Employment Appeal Tribunal I would hold that it does not.
He differed from Langstaff J only in respect of the disposal of the appeal, having taken the view, shared as he thought with the EAT, that the undisputed facts of this case cannot amount to unfavourable treatment within section 15 (para 52), the issue of justification did not arise, and accordingly he saw no purpose in remitting to the tribunal.
Accordingly the court substituted an order simply dismissing Mr Williams claims.
The submissions in this court
For Mr Williams, Ms Crasnows submissions, as I understood them, had a somewhat different emphasis from the case below.
I have already noted her rejection of the comparison (drawn before the tribunal) with a person with a different disability.
Although her case was developed at considerable length, both in the appellants written case and in a speaking note presented to the court, her