 the treatment of someone with a different form of disability.
In the EAT Langstaff J (President) held that in this respect the tribunal had been in error (para 30).
I do not understand that aspect of his reasoning to be under challenge before us.
As Ms Crasnow QC says (in her speaking note for Mr Williams): Comparing Mr W to others who have different medical histories (stroke/heart attack) is the wrong approach.
At the beginning of Langstaff Js judgment, he had commented on the effect of the scheme for Mr Williams, which he described as immensely favourable: Under the rules of the pension scheme applicable to him employees were entitled to a pension on retirement at age 67, but not earlier, unless retiring when their ill health was such that they were plainly incapable of continuing in work.
In the latter case, employees would be entitled not only to the immediate payment of pension without actuarial reduction in respect of the work they had already done (accrued pension) but also to an enhanced pension.
This was also paid without actuarial reduction for early receipt as if they had continued working until normal retirement age (in the claimants case 67) continuing to receive the salary they had been receiving when they retired.
This was plainly an immensely favourable arrangement for anyone eligible for it.
Those eligible for it were necessarily disabled (within the meaning of the Equality Act 2010).
Any other 38 year old who left the service of the university at that age would have no prospect of receiving the payment of any accrued pension entitlement until they reached what would have been their normal retirement age, nor any prospect of receiving any enhanced pension. (para 1)
In a section under the heading Unfavourably, he gave his own view of the meaning of the term (paras 27 29).
He did not think the word could be equated with the word detriment used elsewhere in the Act; nor, as was agreed, did it require a comparison with an identifiable comparator, actual or hypothetical.
It was to be measured against an objective sense of that which is adverse as compared with that which is beneficial.
He noted that the same word was used elsewhere in the Act, in provisions which have a longer pedigree, in relation to discrimination on the grounds of pregnancy (section 18(2)).
In that context it had the sense of placing a hurdle in front of, or creating a particular difficulty for, or disadvantaging a person .
It was likely to be intended to have much the same sense in section 15.
It was for a tribunal to recognise when an individual has been treated unfavourably, and it was not possible to be prescriptive.
However, in his view treatment which is advantageous cannot be said to be unfavourable merely because it is thought it could have been more advantageous, or, put the other way round, because it is insufficiently advantageous.
The determination of that which is unfavourable involves an assessment in which a broad view is to be taken and which is to be judged by broad experience of life.
Persons may be said to have been treated unfavourably if they are not in as good a position as others generally would be.
He cited Malcolm as an obvious example of a life event which would generally be regarded as adverse.
He also disagreed with the tribunals reasons for rejecting the respondents case on justification (paras 40ff).
However, he was unable to say that there was necessarily only one result to which a properly directed tribunal could come.
Accordingly he ordered that the appeal should be remitted to a different panel for a full rehearing (paras 50 51).
In the Court of Appeal, the leading judgment was given by Bean LJ.
He adopted a similar approach to that of Langstaff J, although he also