 in which a broad view is to be taken and which is to be judged by broad experience of life.
This objective test, he submitted, was to be contrasted with the mixed subjective/objective test held to apply when determining whether an individual has been subjected to a detriment under section 39 of the Act, that is whether the treatment is of such a kind that a reasonable worker would or might take the view that in all the circumstances it was to his detriment? (per Lord Hope in Shamoon v Chief Constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary [2003] UKHL 11; [2003] ICR 337, para 35).
However, as he submitted, whichever test is adopted the conclusion is the same.
Mr Williams had not been treated unfavourably.
He had not received a lower or lesser pension than would otherwise have been available to him if he had not been disabled.
If he had not been disabled, and had been able to work full time, the consequence would not have been calculation of his pension on a more favourable basis, but loss of entitlement to any pension at all until his normal retirement date.
Discussion
Since I am substantially in agreement with the reasoning of the Court of Appeal, I can express my conclusions shortly, without I hope disrespect to Ms Crasnows carefully developed submissions.
I agree with her that in most cases (including the present) little is likely to be gained by seeking to draw narrow distinctions between the word unfavourably in section 15 and analogous concepts such as disadvantage or detriment found in other provisions, nor between an objective and a subjective/objective approach.
While the passages in the Code of Practice to which she draws attention cannot replace the statutory words, they do in my view provide helpful advice as to the relatively low threshold of disadvantage which is sufficient to trigger the requirement to justify under this section.
It is unnecessary to refer to more remote sources such as the United Nations Conventions.
Nor do I find it useful to speculate about the application of the section or the Code in hypothetical cases which are not before the court.
On the other hand, I do not think that the passages in the Code do anything to overcome the central objection to Mr Williams case as now formulated, which can be shortly stated.
It is necessary first to identify the relevant treatment to which the section is to be applied.
In this case it was the award of a pension.
There was nothing intrinsically unfavourable or disadvantageous about that.
By contrast in Malcolm, as Bean LJ pointed out (para 42), there was no doubt as to the nature of the disadvantage suffered by the claimant.
No one would dispute that eviction is unfavourable.
Ms Crasnows formulation, to my mind, depends on an artificial separation between the method of calculation and the award to which it gave rise.
The only basis on which Mr Williams was entitled to any award at that time was by reason of his disabilities.
As Mr Bryant says, had he been able to work full time, the consequence would have been, not an enhanced entitlement, but no immediate right to a pension at all.
It is unnecessary to say whether or not the award of the pension of that amount and in those circumstances was immensely favourable (in Langstaff Js words).
It is enough that it was not in any sense unfavourable, nor (applying the approach of the Code) could it reasonably have been so regarded.
For these reasons I would dismiss the appeal.
