).
As he explained (paras 52 54), one of the issues for the House was how the relevant comparison should be made: Who were the others to whom that reason does not or would not apply? This had been considered in detail by Mummery LJ giving judgment in the Court of Appeal in Clark v Novacold Ltd [1999] ICR 951.
He illustrated the two competing constructions by taking the example of a blind man who wished to take his guide dog into a restaurant which had a no dogs rule.
Should the comparison be with an able bodied man who wished to take his dog into the restaurant? If so, there would be no less favourable treatment because all are treated the same.
The able bodied man too would be refused entry for the same reason, namely that he wished to take his dog into the restaurant.
Or should the comparison be with an able bodied man who did not need to take a dog into the restaurant and would not therefore be excluded? In that case there would be unfavourable treatment.
In the context of Malcolm the first approach would require the comparison with an able bodied man who had sublet, and the second with someone who had not sublet.
The problem with the first analysis was that it effectively rendered disability related discrimination a dead letter and equated it for practical purposes with direct disability discrimination as Lord Brown of Eaton under Heywood recognised in terms.
The problem with the second analysis was that it effectively did away with the comparison exercise altogether, as all their Lordships accepted.
It requires a comparison with persons to whom the reason for the treatment does not apply; logically the claimant will always be treated less favourably than such persons.
The Court of Appeal in Clark v Novacold Ltd had preferred the latter approach on the grounds that it was what Parliament had intended, but in Malcolm their Lordships held, by a majority on this point that the former was the proper comparison.
So, in the view of the majority, the comparison is a like for like exercise; the comparator must be similarly placed to the disabled claimant in all relevant respects save for the disability.
This is precisely what is required in direct discrimination cases.
Although it is not in dispute that the wording of section 15 was intended in broad terms to reverse the ruling in Malcolm, our task is not to try to re construct the pre Malcom law.
It is to the section itself, interpreted in accordance with ordinary principles, that we must look for the applicable tests in the present case.
The most obvious feature, in line with the Solicitor Generals explanation, is the removal of any element of comparison.
Instead, section 15 appears to raise two simple questions of fact: what was the relevant treatment and was it unfavourable to the claimant?
The judgments below
The Employment Tribunal (para 32) accepted as correct the case as presented on behalf of Mr Williams.
Its essence appears from the passage quoted by the tribunal at para 23 of their judgment.
It was argued that, in line with previous authority on the equivalent term detriment, the expression unfavourable treatment should be given a broad meaning, including any financial or economic disadvantage.
The submission continued: A simple reasonable and logical analysis of the pension rules leads to the inevitable realisation that a person who retires suddenly following a heart attack or stroke would receive their deemed years of service at their full time salary whilst a disabled employee who before retiring is forced to work part time due [to] an increasing disability only receives their deemed years of service at their part time salary.
The disabled employee is consequently at a substantial financial disadvantage. (para 23)
On its face, that formulation appeared to re introduce a form of comparison which the new section was intended to eliminate, but this time by reference to a hypothetical comparison with