 central submission can be shortly stated.
In the words of her speaking note, it was unfavourable to calculate the enhanced element of his pension using his final salary (that is, the lower part time salary) given that he had been working part time: only because of his disabilities.
Had he not been disabled he would have continued to work full time.
The same point was expressed slightly more fully in the written case (para 51): It is submitted that if the Court of Appeal had correctly understood the meaning of unfavourable, as advocated by the appellant, it would have been bound to find that Mr Williams was treated unfavourably, suffering detriment.
The unfavourable treatment was the adoption of his part time salary as the multiplier when calculating the enhanced element of his pension, when at all times he was on a full time contract and his hours had been reduced solely as a temporary reasonable adjustment by way of a phased return.
The detriment was that he was unable to achieve the full payment under that scheme.
The two concepts are very similar and here one is an inevitable consequence of the other.
Her supporting submissions took issue with various aspects of the reasoning of the EAT and the Court of Appeal, including the suggestion of Langstaff J that the word unfavourably must be taken to have a different meaning from the word detriment as used elsewhere in the Act.
She referred to the guidance given in the Equality and Human Rights Commissions Code of Practice (2011), which she said adopts a more flexible approach.
Under the heading What is unfavourable treatment?, the Code states: 5.7 For discrimination arising from disability to occur, a disabled person must have been treated unfavourably.
This means that he or she must have been put at a disadvantage.
Often, the disadvantage will be obvious and it will be clear that the treatment has been unfavourable; for example, a person may have been refused a job, denied a work opportunity or dismissed their employment.
But sometimes unfavourable treatment may be less obvious.
Even if an employer thinks that they are acting in the best interests of a disabled person, they may still treat that person unfavourably. from The reference in that passage to disadvantage took her to an earlier passage dealing with the word disadvantage as it appears elsewhere in the statute (section 19): 4.9 Disadvantage is not defined by the Act.
It could include denial of an opportunity or choice, deterrence, rejection or exclusion.
The courts have found that detriment, a similar concept, is something that a reasonable person would complain about so an unjustified sense of grievance would not qualify.
A disadvantage does not have to be quantifiable and the worker does not have to experience actual loss (economic or otherwise).
It is enough that the worker can reasonably say that they would have preferred to be treated differently.
Those passages, Ms Crasnow submitted, show that words such as unfavourably, disadvantage, and detriment are similar in effect.
The last sentence also supports a test which is not purely objective; regard may be had to what is reasonably seen as unfavourable by the person affected.
In this connection she relied also on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was said to require a broad interpretation of discrimination, and in particular to support the need to have regard to the subjective experience of the person concerned, albeit tempered by a reasonableness test.
For the respondents, Mr Bryant QC generally supported the reasoning of the EAT and the Court of Appeal.
In particular he adopted Langstaff Js interpretation (paras 28 29) of the word unfavourably: it has the sense of placing a hurdle in front of, or creating a particular difficulty for, or disadvantaging a person The determination of that which is unfavourable involves an assessment