 a legitimate aim, or in other words justified.
This contention was upheld by the Employment Tribunal, but rejected on appeal by the Employment Appeal Tribunal (Langstaff J) [2015] ICR 1197 and by the Court of Appeal (Arden, Briggs and Bean LJJ) [2018] ICR 233.
It is common ground that if the appeal succeeds, the appeal will have to be remitted to the Employment Tribunal to consider the issue of justification under section 15(1)(b).
Comparison with the previous law
It is accepted by both sides that section 15 needs to be considered in the context of the previous law, as interpreted by the House of Lords in Lewisham London Borough Council v Malcolm [2008] UKHL 43; [2008] 1 AC 1399.
We have been referred to the words of the Solicitor General in a Public Bill Committee on what was then clause 14 of the Equality Bill (Hansard (HC Debates), 16 June 2009, col 275): Like the provision in the 1995 Act, clause 14 is intended to provide that the disabled person demonstrates that they have been subjected to detrimental treatment because of something connected with their disability and, secondly, that the duty holder should be able to justify that treatment.
However, we have revised the wording from the 1995 Act because we cannot simply carry it forward as the finding in the courts said that we did not achieve the protection that we intended.
We therefore dropped the requirement for a comparator.
Similarly, the Explanatory Note to section 15 of the Act states: This section is a new provision.
The Disability Discrimination Act 1995 provided protection from disability related discrimination but, following the judgment of the House of Lords in the case of London Borough of Lewisham v Malcolm [2008] UKHL 43, those provisions no longer provided the degree of protection from disability related discrimination that is intended for disabled people.
This section is aimed at re establishing an appropriate balance between enabling a disabled person to make out a case of experiencing a detriment which arises because of his or her disability, and providing an opportunity for an employer or other person to defend the treatment.
The direct predecessor of section 15 was section 3A of the Disability Discrimination Act 1995: (1) For the purposes of this Part, a person discriminates against a disabled person if (a) for a reason which relates to the disabled persons disability, he treats him less favourably than he treats or would treat others to whom that reason does not or would not apply, and (b) he cannot show that the treatment in question is justified.
Malcolm itself had been concerned with section 22 of the 1995 Act, directed at disability related discrimination in the management of property, including in that case by eviction.
Section 24(1) defined discrimination for that purpose in similar terms to section 15.
It required consideration of whether, on the assumption that the eviction was for a reason related to a persons disability, it involved treating him less favourably than others to whom that reason does not or would not apply.
In Malcolm a council tenant who suffered from schizophrenia had sublet his flat in breach of the tenancy agreement.
When the council sought to determine the tenancy, he argued that the reason for his action related to his illness and that the eviction constituted discrimination contrary to section 22.
It is convenient to refer to the helpful summary of the background and substance of the decision by Elias LJ in Griffiths v Secretary of State for Work and Pensions [2015] EWCA Civ 1265; [2017] ICR 160 (a case directly concerned with reasonable adjustments under section 20 of the 2010 Act