 application successfully.
If the landlord is a company, there may be board minutes in which these alternative intentions are recorded.
But by the time of the hearing these alternative intentions about what if any works the landlord will do if the tenant leaves voluntarily will usually just be past history.
The tenant will by then have committed substantial costs, and risked liability for the landlords costs, in pursuing its claim for a new tenancy to a hard fought hearing.
The prospect of voluntary departure may have receded to a purely theoretical irrelevance, like a cloud the size of a mans hand.
In such a case the landlord may no longer have any relevant intention in relation to that hypothetical and indeed counter factual possibility.
In some cases the tenant may from the outset have manifested such a determination to seek a new tenancy at all costs that voluntary departure may never have been a sufficient possibility for the landlord to have given it a moments thought, still less formed an intention about it.
To the question in cross examination: does your company now intend to carry out these works if the tenant goes voluntarily, the landlords witness might say, with complete honesty, as at the hearing date, that she and her fellow directors dont waste their valuable time discussing irrelevant hypothetical possibilities.
It is to escape this forensic cul de sac that legitimate recourse may now have to be had to a forensic examination of the landlords purpose or motive, as Lord Sumption suggests.
As he points out at the beginning of his judgment, the real issue of principle in this case is whether the landlord should be able to resist a new tenancy by reference to intended works of construction if its only purpose in doing them is to get rid of the tenant.
Of course, as the cases reviewed by Lord Sumption show, a direct invocation of a purpose test is not permitted by the language of section 30(1)(f), because it speaks solely of intention.
Parliament has chosen to define this ground of opposition by reference to intention, but cannot have intended thereby to enable a landlord to defeat a claim under the Act by asserting and proving an intention to do works purely for the purpose of getting rid of the tenant, such that the works (or the qualifying works) would not be done if the tenant left voluntarily.
The courts have until now restricted the forensic examination of the landlords purpose or motive to a test of the genuineness of that intention.
By genuineness I have no doubt that the court meant honesty.
In practice, that examination has, for very many years, largely been overtaken by the common use of the undertaking to the court to carry out the works if a new tenancy is refused, as a reliable litmus test for genuine intention.
But neither the undertaking to the court, nor the examination of the genuineness of the landlords intention, will reveal whether the landlords intention is of the disqualifying conditional kind, as this case demonstrates.
This landlords intention, backed up by a proffered undertaking to the court, was perfectly genuine, and the fact that the avowed purpose of the otherwise useless works was only to get rid of the tenant said nothing at all to detract from its genuineness.
But the frank admission as to the landlords underlying purpose said all that was necessary to reveal that the intention to do the works was only of that conditional kind, such that the works would not have been done if the tenant had agreed to go voluntarily.
There is nothing hypothetical or counter factual about testing the type or quality of the landlords intention, as at the time of the hearing, by an analysis of the purpose or motive behind it.
The disqualifying underlying purpose (just to get rid of the tenant) is a continuing aspect of the landlords then current intention, even if the direct question whether, in other circumstances (the tenant going voluntarily), the landlord would have intended to do the