 works could be done by exercising a right of entry.
Does an intention of this kind engage ground (f)? The courts below thought that it was a sufficient answer to this question that the condition was satisfied at the time of the trial, because it was by then clear that the tenant would not in fact leave voluntarily and that the works could not be done by way of a right of entry while he remained in possession.
A dictum of Neuberger J in Al Malik Carpets (Private) Ltd v London Buildings (Highgate) Ltd [1999] All ER (D) 971, Transcript p 11, suggests that he too would have regarded it as sufficient, although the point was not directly in issue in that case.
I respectfully disagree.
The problem is not the mere conditionality of the landlords intention, but the nature of the condition.
Section 30(1)(f) of the Act assumes that the landlords intention to demolish or reconstruct the premises is being obstructed by the tenants occupation.
Hence the requirement that the landlord could not reasonably do so without obtaining possession of the holding.
Hence also the provision of section 31A that the court shall not hold this requirement to have been satisfied if the works can reasonably be carried out by exercising a right of entry and the tenant is willing to include a right of entry for that purpose in the terms of the new tenancy.
These provisions show that the landlords intention to demolish or reconstruct the premises must exist independently of the tenants statutory claim to a new tenancy, so that the tenants right of occupation under a new lease would serve to obstruct it.
The landlords intention to carry out the works cannot therefore be conditional on whether the tenant chooses to assert his claim to a new tenancy and to persist in that claim.
The acid test is whether the landlord would intend to do the same works if the tenant left voluntarily.
On the facts found by Judge Saggerson, the tenants possession of the premises did not obstruct the landlords intended works, for if the tenant gave up possession the landlord had no intention of carrying them out.
Likewise, the landlord did not intend to carry them out if the tenant persuaded the court that the works could reasonably be carried out while it remained in possession.
In my judgment, a conditional intention of this kind is not the fixed and settled intention that ground (f) requires.
The answer would be the same if what the landlord proposed was a demolition, conditionally on its being necessary to obtain possession from the court.
More complex issues would arise if the landlord intended to carry out some substantial part of the proposed works whether or not it was necessary to do so in order to obtain vacant possession from the court, and part of them only if it was necessary in order to gain possession.
This might arise if, for example, the unconditional part of the landlords plan was insufficiently substantial or disruptive to warrant the refusal of a new tenancy, so that spurious additional works had to be added for the sole purpose of obtaining possession.
In a situation like that, the answer is likely to depend on the precise facts.
If, however, it is established that, at the time of the trial, were the tenant hypothetically to leave voluntarily, the landlord would not carry out the spurious additional works, then the tenants claim to a new tenancy would normally fall to be resolved by reference only to the works which the landlord unconditionally intended.
Just as the landlords motive or purpose, although irrelevant in themselves, may be investigated at trial as evidence for the genuineness of his professed intention to carry out the works, so also they may be relevant as evidence of the conditional character of that intention.
In both cases, the landlords motive and purpose are being examined only because inferences may be drawn from them about his real intentions.
Lik