 undertaking to the court to carry out the works if a new tenancy was refused.
The sole purpose of the works was to obtain vacant possession.
The landlords evidence was that it was prepared to run the risk that the premises occupied by the tenant would be rendered unusable in order to secure its objective of undertaking [the third scheme] and thereby remove the claimant from the premises.
The landlord submitted that the works are thoroughly intended because they are a way of obtaining possession.
That is all there is to it.
As the landlords principal witness put it, the third scheme was designed purely for the purpose of satisfying ground (f).
The judge found that the landlord genuinely intended to carry out the works if they were necessary in order to get rid of the tenant, but that it did not intend to carry out the works if it were not necessary to do so for that purpose.
It would not, for example, have been necessary to carry out the works if the tenant agreed to go voluntarily, or it were to be found possible to carry them out by exercising a right of entry without obtaining vacant possession.
The landlord gave evidence that in the longer term, it was hoped that the departure of the tenant would facilitate a more ambitious plan of works to add 28 bedrooms to the hotel.
It was proposed to review the desirability of proceeding with this plan in 2018.
These further works were not, however, the works relied upon by the landlord for the purpose of satisfying ground (f).
Schemes like this will not always be economically feasible.
They depend on the value of vacant possession exceeding the cost of the useless works.
But in locations such as the west end of London, where property values are high and/or rentals depressed by planning restrictions, they may make economic sense as a means of obtaining vacant possession.
On that footing, Judge Saggerson found that the landlord genuinely intended to carry out the works and that ground (f) was made out.
He therefore declined to order a new tenancy.
On appeal to the High Court, Jay J agreed, but gave permission for a leap frog appeal to this court.
The justification for the leap frog appeal was that the decision of the courts below was based on a line of authority in the Court of Appeal and the House of Lords to the effect that the operation of the section depended on a two part test.
The landlord had to prove (i) that it had a genuine intention to carry out qualifying works; and (ii) that it would practically be able to do so.
It was submitted on behalf of the landlord that the effect of these decisions was that nothing else mattered.
In particular, the landlords motives, the reasonableness of its intentions, or the objective utility of the works, whether for its own purposes or in the public interest, were all alike irrelevant, except (as the landlord accepted) as material from which the court might infer that the intention to carry them out was not genuine.
The origin of the two part test proposed by the landlord is the decision of the Court of Appeal in Cunliffe v Goodman [1950] 2 KB 237.This was an appeal in an action for damages for breach of a repairing covenant on the expiry of a lease.
By section 18(1) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1927, no such damages were recoverable if it is shown that the premises would at or shortly after the termination of the tenancy have been or be pulled down, or such structural alterations made therein as would render valueless the repairs covered by the covenant.
The language, purpose and context of the statutory provision under consideration were therefore quite different from those of Part II of the Act of 1954.
But it had been held in Marquess of Salisbury v Gilmore [1942] 2 KB 38 that