Part II of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 confers a qualified security of tenure on business tenants.
A tenant in occupation of the premises under a tenancy for a term of years certain may stay over and request a new tenancy beginning upon its expiry, unless before the tenancy was granted the landlord had served a notice informing the tenant of his rights and the parties had then agreed to exclude the relevant provisions of the Act.
The tenant may apply to the court under section 24(1) of the Act for an order granting one.
The court is required to make that order unless the landlord makes out one of seven grounds of opposition specified in section 30(1), in which case it is required to refuse one.
One of those grounds is that the landlord intends to demolish or reconstruct the premises.
The question which arises on this appeal is whether it is open to the landlord to oppose the grant of a new tenancy if the works which he says that he intends to carry out have no purpose other than to get rid of the tenant and would not be undertaken if the tenant were to leave voluntarily.
The directly relevant provisions of the Act are section 30(1)(f) and section 31A. Section 30(1)(f) provides that the landlord may oppose the grant of a new tenancy on the ground that on the termination of the current tenancy the landlord intends to demolish or reconstruct the premises comprised in the holding or a substantial part of those premises or to carry out substantial work of construction on the holding or part thereof and that he could not reasonably do so without obtaining possession of the holding .
Section 31A (which was inserted by the Law of Property Act 1969, section 7(1)), provides: (1) Where the landlord opposes an application under section 24(1) of this Act on the ground specified in paragraph (f) of section 30(1) of this Act the court shall not hold that the landlord could not reasonably carry out the demolition, reconstruction or work of construction intended without obtaining possession of the holding if (a) the tenant agrees to the inclusion in the terms of the new tenancy of terms giving the landlord access and other facilities for carrying out the work intended and, given that access and those facilities, the landlord could reasonably carry out the work without obtaining possession of the holding and without interfering to a substantial extent or for a substantial time with the use of the holding for the purposes of the business carried on by the tenant; or the tenant is willing to accept a tenancy of an (b) economically separable part of the holding and either paragraph (a) of this section is satisfied with respect to that part or possession of the remainder of the holding would be reasonably sufficient to enable the landlord to carry out the intended work.
Section 37 provides that where a court is precluded from ordering the grant of a new tenancy on certain grounds, including this one, the tenant is entitled to compensation.
The premises in issue on this appeal comprise the ground floor and basement of 80, Jermyn Street in the St Jamess area of London.
The freeholders of the building are the South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust and the landlord is the head lessee.
The tenant is a textile dealership and consultancy, specialising in antique tapestries and textiles.
It occupies the ground floor and basement under an underlease for a term of 25 years from 2 January 1989, and uses them as a retail art gallery, showroom and archive.
The rest of the building is occupied and managed by the landlord as a hotel.
The local planning authority, Westminster City Council, has designated the St Jamess area as a special policy area, in which it seeks to protect and promote certain uses,