ewise, although the statutory test does not depend on the objective utility of the works, a lack of utility may be evidence from which the conditional character of the landlords intention may be inferred.
I am not persuaded by Mr Fetherstonhaughs submission that if the law is as I believe it to be, landlords will disguise their intentions more effectively than his clients did.
It would be unworldly for this court to ignore that possibility.
But we cannot decide an issue of statutory construction on the assumption that landlords will withhold the truth from the court on an application for a new tenancy.
We have to proceed on the footing litigants are honest or, if they are not, that they will be found out by the experienced judges who hear these cases.
This makes it unnecessary for me to deal with the tenants alternative submission that the landlords apparent intention should be disregarded for want of any commercial purpose, by analogy with the approach taken in W T Ramsay Ltd v Inland Revenue Comrs [1982] AC 300 to tax avoidance schemes.
That submission is not only more radical in its implications but more difficult to reconcile with established authority on the Act of 1954.
I would allow the appeal and declare that on the facts found the landlord does not intend, within the meaning of section 30(1)(f), to carry out the works specified in the scheme of works relied upon in opposition to the tenants application for a new tenancy.
LORD BRIGGS: (with whom Lady Black and Lord Kitchin agree)
I agree with Lord Sumptions conclusion that this appeal should be allowed, and with his reasons for that conclusion.
I add a few words of my own out of respect for the concern persuasively expressed by the County Court judge, that the forensic assessment, as at the hearing date, of the question whether the landlord intended to do the proposed works if the tenant left voluntarily would be to travel not merely into the realm of the hypothetical, but into the positively counter factual.
The reasonable expression of such a concern by a judge experienced in this type of litigation should not lightly be disregarded.
In Bettys Cafs Ltd v Phillips Furnishing Stores Ltd [1959] AC 20 the House of Lords laid down, in unmistakable terms, a rule that the question whether the landlord had the requisite intention to enable the grant of a new tenancy to be resisted under section 30(1)(f) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 had to be determined by reference to the landlords intention as at the time of the hearing, not at any earlier date.
In that case the company landlord only proved its intention by reference to a board meeting held a week after the hearing started.
Nothing in these judgments alters that rule in any way.
But there are potential difficulties in addressing conditionality of intention at the hearing date, which Judge Saggerson regarded as fatal to the submission that this was what section 30(1)(f) should be interpreted as requiring.
In the real world, as a business tenancy approaches its contractual termination date, a landlord may well be faced with alternative future scenarios: will the tenant leave voluntarily or seek a new tenancy? These alternatives may be discussed in negotiations, or at a mediation, before or even after the tenant begins proceedings for the grant of a new tenancy.
The landlord may well form alternative intentions to meet both eventualities.
If the tenant leaves voluntarily the landlord may just carry out a modest refurbishment before occupying the premises for its own business, or selling with vacant possession.
If the tenant plans to fight for a new tenancy, the landlord may intend to do large scale works, or to demolish premises with significant development value, in order to be able (under the law as understood by the courts below) to oppose the tenants