 pointed out in Majorstake Ltd v Curtis [2008] AC 787, paras 34 35, it is clear that for the purposes of section 30(1)(f) of the Act of 1954 it is for the landlord to decide what works he wishes to carry out and where.
It follows that if his intention is genuine, it cannot matter whether it is reasonable, or whether reasonable changes to the scheme would make it consistent with the tenants continued possession of the demised premises: see Decca Navigator Co Ltd v Greater London Council [1974] 1 WLR 748; Blackburn v Hussain [1988] 1 EGLR 77, 79 (Taylor LJ).
Although the point must be regarded as res integra in this court, I accept the submission of Mr Fetherstonhaugh QC (who appeared for the landlord) that the touchstone of ground (f) is a firm and settled intention to carry out the works.
The landlords purpose or motive are irrelevant save as material for testing whether such a firm and settled intention exists.
This is implicit in the abundant case law generated by the Act since Atkinson v Bettison and it is the plain meaning of intention in both ground (f) and ground (g).
Mr Fetherstonhaugh is also surely right in saying that as a statutory interference with the landlords proprietary rights, the protection conferred by the Act should be carried no further than the statutory language and purpose require.
It confers no more than a qualified security on the tenant.
Certain interests of the landlord override whatever security it was intended to confer on the tenant, and one of them is the right to demolish or reconstruct his property in whatever way he chooses at the expiry of the term.
Nonetheless, I do not think that these considerations avail the landlord on the facts of the present case.
This appeal does not, as it seems to me, turn on the landlords motive or purpose, nor on the objective reasonableness of its proposals.
It turns on the nature or quality of the intention that ground (f) requires.
The entire value of the works proposed by this landlord consists in getting rid of the tenant and not in any benefit to be derived from the reconstruction itself.
The commercial reality is that the landlord is proposing to spend a sum of money to obtain vacant possession.
Indeed, in many cases, apart from the statutory compensation, landlords with proposals like these will not even have to spend the money.
They need only supply the tenant with a schedule of works substantial and disruptive enough to be inconsistent with his continued occupation.
If the landlords argument is correct, the tenant will have no incentive to go to court just to get an undertaking to carry out the works, from which he could derive no possible benefit.
He will recognise defeat and leave voluntarily.
The landlord will then have no need to give an undertaking to the court and no reason to carry out the works.
The result is that no overriding interest of the landlord will be served which section 30 can be thought to protect.
The right to obtain vacant possession on the expiry of the existing term, which is all that the landlord is getting for his money, is not in itself an interest protected by section 30.
On the contrary, in a case where the parties have not agreed to contract out of statutory protection, it is the very interest that Part II of the Act is designed to restrict.
These considerations are relevant not so much in themselves as because in such a case one would usually infer what in this case the landlord has been honest enough to admit, ie that the landlords intention to carry out the works was conditional.
It intended to carry them out only conditionally on their being necessary to get the tenant out, and not, for example, if he left voluntarily or if the judge was persuaded that the