 namely private members clubs, art galleries and niche retail outlets.
Pursuant to that policy, the premises occupied by the tenant are recognised as having a specific, sui generis, use for planning purposes, namely mixed use, comprising retail, depository, research centre, archive library, publishing and conservation for historic tapestries, textile art and carpets.
Any material change of use would require planning consent.
On 16 March 2015, the tenant served statutory notices requesting the grant of a new tenancy.
On 15 May 2015, the landlord served a statutory counter notice opposing the grant of a new tenancy under section 30(1)(f) of the Act.
On 8 June 2015, the tenant applied in the Central London County Court for an order.
A preliminary issue was directed whether that ground of opposition was made out.
The facts are unusually stark.
In its defence, the landlord put forward several successive schemes said to represent the works which it intended to carry out.
These works were designed (i) to be sufficiently substantial to qualify under ground (f); (ii) to be too substantial and disruptive to be carried out by exercising a right of entry while the tenant remained in possession; and (iii) to avoid the need for planning permission, which would have enabled the tenant to argue that its likely refusal would make the project ineffective.
In the words of the judge (HHJ Saggerson), the proposed scheme of works was designed with the material intention of undertaking works that would lead to the eviction of the tenant regardless of the works commercial or practical utility and irrespective of the expense.
The scheme went through three iterations.
The first scheme involved incorporating the former bar of the hotel into the ground floor of the premises.
This scheme was shortly abandoned and replaced by a new scheme which involved creating two new retail units incorporating the premises occupied by the tenant and part of the hotel, and carrying out certain associated external works including the installation of a new street door to allow access to one of the units.
The planning officers of the local authority recommended this scheme for refusal, whereupon it was withdrawn and replaced by a third scheme, which was the one eventually relied upon at the trial of the preliminary issue.
The third scheme was based on the second, with two significant differences.
First, it omitted the external works, which would have required planning permission.
For this reason, the internal wall dividing the two proposed retail units stopped two metres short of the shopfront at ground floor level; and there was no external door to one of the units, so that it could be accessed only through the other.
Secondly, the new scheme added more extensive internal works, many of which were objectively useless.
They included the artificial lowering of part of the basement floor slab, in a way which would achieve nothing other than the creation of an impractical stepped floor in one of the units; the repositioning of smoke vents for no reason; and the demolition of an internal wall at ground floor level followed by its immediate replacement with a similar wall in the same place.
The cost of the scheme was estimated by the landlord at 776,707 excluding VAT, in addition to statutory compensation of 324,000 payable to the tenant.
It is common ground that the proposed works had no practical utility.
This was because, although the works themselves required no planning permission, it would be impossible to make any use of them at all without planning permission for change of use, which the landlord did not intend to seek.
Planning permission would have been required because the scheme involved combining premises permitted for hotel use with premises permitted for sui generis use.
In addition, one of the retail units was unusable without an entrance from the street.
In accordance with a common practice in this field, the landlord supported its evidence of intention with a written