 these requirements, tenants might be deprived of the protection which Parliament intended them to have.
It must be remembered that if the landlord, having got possession, honestly changes his mind and does not do any work of reconstruction, the tenant has no remedy.
Hence the necessity for a firm and settled intention.
Morris LJ, who had also sat in Atkinson v Bettison, said (p 89): Where, as in section 30(1)(f), proof of an intention is to be supplied, and of an intention related to a particular time, then the genuineness of a declared intention may have to be decided.
Considerations as to what may be a landlords primary purpose, or his real intention, or his main purpose, or his secondary purpose, or his real reason (to quote phrases which have been used), are only of relevance and assistance in the course of deciding whether the landlord has proved that he genuinely has an intention of doing one of the things specified in section 30(1)(f), and of doing it on the termination of the current tenancy.
The third case was the decision of the House of Lords in Bettys Cafs Ltd v Phillips Furnishing Stores Ltd [1959] AC 20.
The decision is authority for two propositions: (i) that the relevant intention of the landlord was his intention at the date of the hearing; and (ii) that grounds (f) and (g) were distinct grounds of opposition, and that accordingly ground (f) should not be read as implicitly excluding cases where the landlord wished to occupy the premises himself.
However, the tenant also sought to resurrect the argument rejected in Fisher v Taylors Furnishing Stores Ltd that redevelopment must be the landlords primary purpose, and two members of the Appellate Committee, Lord Denning and Lord Morton, commented on that attempt, obiter.
Lord Denning (p 52) reaffirmed the view which he had expressed in Fisher.
Lord Morton (pp 44 45) also rejected the tenants argument, but on the more limited ground that it wrongly assumed that grounds (f) and (g) were mutually exclusive categories.
The speeches throw little light on the broader relevance (if any) of the landlords motives in seeking to redevelop the premises.
But the House may fairly be said to have implicitly endorsed the approach taken in Fisher rather than that in Atkinson.
The decision of the Court of Appeal in Housleys Ltd v Bloomer Holt Ltd [1966] 1 WLR 1244 turned on the identity of the relevant premises for the purposes of ground (f).
Diplock LJ, however, took the opportunity to point out that Bettys Cafs must be regarded as having definitively laid to rest the concept of the primary purpose floated in Atkinson v Bettison.
He observed (p 1251) that the fallacy in that case lay in the proposition that one had got to look and see what the primary intention or purpose or motive of the landlord was.
The same point was subsequently made by the Court of Appeal in Turner v Wandsworth Borough Council [1994] 69 P & CR 433, where it was decisive.
The facts of that case were that the landlord proposed to demolish the premises with a view to leasing them for a short period as a car park and selling them thereafter if market conditions were favourable.
The judge found that the intention to demolish was genuine but that it was colourable because it was simply a device to be able to sell.
The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal.
Staughton LJ, delivering the only reasoned judgment, treated the above cases as authority for the proposition that in general, motive is irrelevant, provided there is a genuine intention to demolish or reconstruct (p 436).
As Baroness Hale