 were refused permission to appeal to this court on that ground.
Accordingly, the hearing before us began on the basis that the High Court had power to grant injunctive relief, exercisable in exceptional circumstances.
As a result of questions which arose in the course of oral argument about the High Courts power, we received further written submissions on the point, after the hearing.
Although both parties continued to support the existence of a power in the High Court, the issue needs attention in this judgment.
The regulatory scheme: background
The regulatory scheme introduced by the Finance Act 2015 was designed to combat fraud in relation to tax due on alcohol.
Alcoholic liquors are subject to excise duty.
Generally the charge to duty arises at the moment of importation into the United Kingdom, or at the moment of production here.
The charge normally falls exclusively on the distiller/manufacturer/importer of alcohol.
The duty paid is then reflected in the price of the alcohol as it passes down the supply chain.
Alcohol was, however, entering the supply chain without the requisite duty being paid, resulting in a significant loss of tax revenue.
There had long been a requirement for those dealing in duty suspended alcohol to be approved by HMRC, but there was no equivalent requirement for those dealing in duty paid alcohol.
The introduction of the present scheme, known as the Alcohol Wholesaler Registration Scheme (AWRS), closed that gap.
The statutory provisions
Section 54 of the Finance Act 2015 inserted Part 6A and Schedule 2B into ALDA.
Much of the fine detail of the statutory provisions is not necessary for present purposes and what follows is, at times, a broad summary only.
A central concept is controlled activity.
By virtue of section 88A(8), controlled activity means selling controlled liquor wholesale, offering it for sale wholesale, or arranging in the course of a trade or business for it to be sold or offered for sale wholesale.
By section 88A(2), a sale is of controlled liquor if it is a sale of dutiable alcoholic liquor on which duty is charged under the Act at a rate greater than nil, with the excise duty point for the liquor falling at or before the time of the sale.
By section 88A(3), subject to some exceptions, the sale is wholesale if the seller makes the sale, in the course of his trade or business, to a trade or business buyer, for the buyer to sell or supply in the course of his trade or business.
It must be noted that one of the exceptions is, by section 88A(3)(d), an excluded sale.
Section 88A(7) defines a sale as an excluded sale if it is of a description prescribed by or under regulations made by the Commissioners.
Section 88B gives the Commissioners power to make provision, by regulations, for certain matters, including as to the cases in which sales are, or are not, to be treated for the purposes of Part 6A as (amongst other things) wholesale sales, and sales of controlled liquor.
Section 88C deals with approval to carry on controlled activity.
It provides: 88C. Approval to carry on controlled activity (1) A UK person may not carry on a controlled activity otherwise than in accordance with an approval given by the Commissioners under this section. (2) The Commissioners may approve a person under this section to carry on a controlled activity only if they are satisfied that the person is a fit and proper person to carry on the activity. (3) The Commissioners may approve a person under this section to carry on a controlled activity for such periods and subject to such conditions or restrictions as they may think fit or as they may by or under regulations made by them prescribe. (4) The conditions or restrictions may include