76, Burnett LJ recorded that Sir James Eadie accepted on behalf of HMRC that the High Court may grant an interim injunction to vindicate the Convention rights of the wholesalers, though emphasising (1) that (as Burnett LJ himself expressly accepted) the first port of call must be the FTT itself, which could be expected to expedite the appeal to avoid the problem, and (2) that proper evidential support would be required for an argument based on the ECHR.
It was not argued on behalf of the wholesalers that interim relief should issue automatically, without it being demonstrated that the wholesaler could not survive until the appeal was heard.
As Burnett LJ set out at para 83, Mr Coppel recognised that factors such as the strength of the appeal and the nature of the concern that led to the refusal to approve would be factors to be weighed when considering whether to grant an injunction, reflecting the fact that the scheme exists to protect the public purse and legitimate traders.
Burnett LJ set out the sort of compelling evidence that would be required before relief would be granted: 85.
A claimant seeking an injunction would need compelling evidence that the appeal would be ineffective.
It would call for more than a narrative statement from a director of the business speaking of the dire consequences of delay.
The statements should be supported by documentary financial evidence and a statement from an independent professional doing more than reformulating his clients stated opinion.
Otherwise, a judge may be cautious about taking prognostications of disaster at face value.
It should not be forgotten that a trader who sees ultimate failure in the appeal would have every incentive to talk up the prospects of imminent demise of the business, in an attempt to keep going pending appeal.
Equally, material would have to be deployed which provided a proper insight into the prospects of success in an appeal.
There is no permission filter for an appeal to the FTT.
The High Court would not intervene in the absence of a detailed explanation of why the decision of HMRC was unreasonable.
It must not be overlooked that the FTT is not exercising its usual appellate jurisdiction in these types of case where it makes its own decision.
Finally, there would have to be detailed evidence of the attempts made to secure expedition in the FTT and the reasons why those attempts failed.
Burnett LJ anticipated that the circumstances in which it was appropriate for injunctive relief of this kind to issue would be rare, as practical relief would be achievable by obtaining temporary approval from HMRC under section 88C (not a route that I consider available for the reasons set out earlier) or, failing that, by seeking expedition from the FTT.
The evidence in support of injunctive relief in the present cases had not been sufficient to satisfy either of the two judges who entertained the proceedings at first instance that the appeals would be rendered nugatory without interim relief, as Burnett LJ set out: 86.
In the ABC Ltd case William Davies J considered himself bound by the CC & C Ltd case to refuse injunctive relief even if the claimants could show that the appeal would be rendered nugatory.
However, at para 48 he concluded that the evidence did not suggest that was inevitable.
The evidence demonstrated that there was a prospect that the appeal would be rendered nugatory, no more.
In the X Ltd and Y Ltd case, Andrew Baker J dealt with the strength of the evidence relating to the business prospects of the claimants in paras 39 and 40.
He was unpersuaded by the assertions that they would not survive the appeal process.
In those circumstances, even if either judge had considered a free standing injunction by reference to rights guaranteed by article 6 of the ECHR, it would have been refused.
(2) The limited scope of Issue 2
This courts engagement in the issue as