 the wholesaler in these circumstances, it is necessarily requiring HMRC to be satisfied when they are not satisfied, and I question how that can properly be done.
That example points to a more fundamental concern.
Generally the High Courts power to order a person to do something by mandatory injunction is exercisable for the purpose of making that person do something that he has it within his powers to do and should have done, but has failed to do.
Here, the court has concluded, and HMRC agree, that there is in fact nothing which HMRC can properly do in the exercise of their statutory functions.
They may fairly be said to have no relevant power which they could legitimately exercise in this context without straying outside the purpose for which the power was given.
In such circumstances, a conclusion that the High Court could nonetheless solve the problem by granting an injunction looks worryingly like endorsing the exercise of some sort of inherent authority to override an Act of Parliament, on the basis that the end justifies the means.
It would take a lot of persuading for me to conclude that this would be a proper exercise of the High Courts undoubtedly wide power to grant injunctive relief, but the parties agreement that it is permissible has closed off adversarial submissions on the point.
The absence of debate between the parties makes it undesirable to make any definitive pronouncement as to whether an appropriate form of order might be found as a vehicle for the exercise, by the High Court, of its power to grant relief to a wholesaler pending an appeal to the FTT.
Since the case for relief was not, in fact, made out on the evidence in the present case (see para 86 of the Court of Appeal judgment, set out at para 61 above), it is unnecessary to do so, and I will say no more on the subject.
It should be noted that Mr Coppel invites the court to broaden its interpretation of section 88C of ALDA and section 9 of the 2005 Act by viewing them with ECHR considerations in mind, and/or bearing in mind article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of the European Union.
Just as I am uneasy about accepting that the statutory scheme can be interpreted in such a way as to enable the High Court to come to the assistance of a wholesaler whose ECHR rights are in issue, so I do not readily see how section 88C and section 9 could be more broadly interpreted to the same end.
I need not say more on the subject, however, as Mr Coppels argument would not, in any event, assist the wholesalers in this case, given that their evidence did not establish that their ECHR rights are endangered.
Conclusions
I would allow HMRCs appeal against the Court of Appeals order remitting to HMRC the question of whether the wholesalers should be given temporary approval under section 88C. HMRC do not, in my view, have power, in circumstances such as the present ones, to grant such temporary approval under that section.
I would dismiss the wholesalers appeal against the Court of Appeals determination that HMRC do not have power to grant temporary approval under section 9 because, in my view, the Court of Appeal were right.
LORD HUGHES: (with whom Lord Sumption agrees)
For the reasons so clearly set out by Lady Black, I agree that: (i) HMRC has no power under section 88C of the Alcoholic Liquor Duties Act 1979 (ALDA) to approve temporarily an existing trader whom it has determined not to be a fit and proper person even for a short period and even subject to conditions; and (ii) nor has HMRC any power to do this under section 9 of the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005; moreover (iii