 To recap, HMRC deny that they have any such power under section 88C, whereas the wholesalers support the conclusion of the Court of Appeal that there is power, but challenge the Court of Appeals conclusion that hardship and the impact on a wholesalers appeal rights are irrelevant to the exercise of the power.
The Court of Appeals reasoning for its conclusion about section 88C is to be found in paras 52 to 54 of the judgment of Burnett LJ, with whom the other members of the court agreed.
Para 52 deals with HMRCs submissions.
As Burnett LJ explained, it had been readily accepted on behalf of HMRC through their counsel (then, as now, Sir James Eadie QC) that subsections (2) and (3) [of section 88C] hang together.
It was not a question simply of whether, in the abstract, a person was fit and proper, HMRC accepting that it was feasible for persons to fail to satisfy HMRC that they are fit and proper to conduct a wholesale alcohol business without conditions, but to satisfy them that they are fit and proper subject to conditions.
Nevertheless, HMRC submitted that a temporary approval lasting a finite period could not be a proper basis to use the combined operation of the two subsections.
It is important to identify the precise reason for this submission, which is reflected in HMRCs submissions to this court as well.
It was, as summarised in the concluding lines of para 52: because there would have been no relevant change of circumstance relating to fitness since the general decision was made.
Mr Eadie QC accepted that the statute envisaged an approval being given for a limited time but only, as he put it, if HMRC were satisfied on day one that the person concerned was fit and proper.
Para 53 set out the following examples of situations in which approval might properly be limited in some way:
In the following two paragraphs, Burnett LJ set out his conclusion in these
terms: 53.
It is possible to envisage that HMRC might have well founded concerns about the operation of a business at one of is locations, but not others.
A condition limiting trading to specified sites might follow.
They might consider the involvement of a particular proprietor, director or senior employee as critical to the grant of approval.
By contrast, they might consider the involvement of a particular person to be inimical to the grant of approval.
They might limit the period of approval to coincide with the known plans for retirement of an individual of significance in the business.
They might limit the period to enable systems to be improved about which there is some concern.
They might insist on the production of regular information to meet underlying concerns about record keeping and the like. 54.
A conclusion that a person is not fit and proper for unconditional approval does not preclude conditional approval of that person.
In my view HMRC have power under section 88C(3) to grant a temporary approval pending appeal if they conclude that a person is fit and proper for that limited period, perhaps with additional conditions.
That is a possible conclusion that might be reached even if a general approval is being denied.
In substance, if not in form, that is what HMRC were doing before 27 March when they purported to grant 30 days or more grace.
The focus of a decision would remain whether the person was fit and proper but for the more limited purpose.
Hardship and the impact on appeal rights would be extraneous considerations.
Section 88C does not confer upon HMRC a broad discretionary power of approval but it is possible that they could conclude that a person is fit and proper for a limited time to continue trading.
To the extent that HMRC apprehended that they had no power to do what was asked of them by the claimant, in my view