 conditions or restrictions requiring the controlled activity to be carried on only at or from premises specified or approved by the Commissioners. (5) The Commissioners may at any time for reasonable cause revoke or vary the terms of an approval under this section. (6) In this Part approved person means a person approved under this section to carry on a controlled activity.
Section 88D obliges HMRC to maintain a register of approved persons.
It is to contain such information relating to approved persons as the Commissioners consider appropriate (section 88D(2)).
HMRC may make publicly available such information contained in the register as they consider necessary to enable those who deal with a person who carries on a controlled activity to determine whether the person in question is an approved person in relation to that activity (section 88D(3)).
This publicly available information is important as section 88F provides that [a] person may not buy controlled liquor wholesale from a UK person unless the UK person is an approved person in relation to the sale.
Section 88G supports the statutory scheme by establishing various criminal offences.
For example, section 88G(1) makes it an offence to contravene section 88C(1) by selling liquor wholesale knowing, or having reasonable grounds to suspect, that the buyer is carrying on a trade or business and the liquor is for sale or supply in the course of that trade or business.
Buying controlled liquor from an unapproved person, contrary to section 88F, is also an offence, if the person knows or has reasonable grounds to suspect the unapproved status of the supplier.
The Wholesaling of Controlled Liquor Regulations 2015
The Wholesaling of Controlled Liquor Regulations 2015 (SI 2015/1516) (the 2015 Regulations) were made under Part 6A of ALDA.
They provide for the manner in which an application for approval is to be made and processed.
The application must be on a prescribed form, regulation 3(1).
If HMRC refuse an application, they must notify the applicant of that In the present context, the following provisions of the Regulations are of note: i) ii) and give reasons, regulation 4(4). iii) In addition to any conditions or restrictions imposed by HMRC under section 88C(3) of ALDA, the approval of a person is subject to such conditions and restrictions as the Commissioners may prescribe, regulation 7. iv) HMRC may prescribe descriptions of sales that are excluded sales for the purposes of Part 6A of ALDA, regulation 10. v) Part 6 of the Regulations provides for dutiable alcoholic liquor to be subject to forfeiture where a person contravenes section 88C or section 88F or any condition or restriction imposed under Part 6A of ALDA or under the Regulations. vi) By regulation 2, prescribed means prescribed by the Commissioners in a published notice.
Excise Notice 2002: Alcohol Wholesaler Registration Scheme
Excise Notice 2002: Alcohol Wholesaler Registration Scheme (EN2002) was made under ALDA and the 2015 Regulations.
It explains what the AWRS is about and addresses various particular aspects of it.
It has been amended many times since its first publication in November 2015.
The version which is relevant to the decisions of HMRC in this case is that in force between 21 June 2016 and 26 March 2017; unless otherwise specified, references are to that version.
Existing wholesalers who sought approval after the introduction of the scheme were informed, by the relevant version of EN2002, that they could continue to trade as normal until receipt of HMRCs decision (para 6.5).
Para 6.10 set out how