9 of the 2005 Act.
It concerned bereavement allowance, which at that time was payable only to widows and not to widowers.
The House of Lords rejected the argument that section 1 of the Taxes Management Act 1970, which said that income tax shall be under the care and management of the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, could be construed as giving the revenue a discretionary power to grant an extra statutory concession allowing a widower to claim the equivalent to a widows bereavement allowance.
Lord Hoffmann observed at para 21, with the agreement of the rest of the House, that the power could not be construed so widely as to enable the commissioners to concede, by extra statutory concession, an allowance which Parliament could have granted but did not grant.
Although the context was not the same as in the present case, section 1 of the Taxes Management Act 1970 not being concerned with ancillary powers in quite the same way as section 9 of the 2005 Act, it can similarly be said here that section 9 should not be construed as conferring on HMRC a power to grant temporary approval pending appeal which Parliament could have conferred through Part 6A or the FA 1994, but did not.
That temporary approval pending appeal is not part of the scheme is perhaps underlined also by the fact that express provision was made in section 54(12) of the Finance Act 2015 for the time from which the prohibition on trading in section 88C was to apply, namely when the wholesalers application to HMRC was disposed of (ie by section 54(13), has been determined by HMRC, withdrawn, abandoned, or otherwise ceases to have effect), rather than from the conclusion of any appeal against the decision on the application.
Issue 2: High Court powers (1) The approach of the Court of Appeal in CC & C Ltd and in the
present case
In the Court of Appeal, it was common ground that the High Court has power to grant injunctive relief to assist a wholesaler pending his appeal to the FTT, but there was a dispute between the parties as to the basis on which relief could be granted.
In determining this issue, the Court of Appeal drew heavily upon its earlier decision in CC & C Ltd and it will be necessary to look, therefore, at that decision.
There are considerable similarities between CC & C Ltd and the present case, although CC & C Ltd concerned wholesale trade in duty suspended goods, not duty paid goods.
Those trading wholesale in duty suspended goods were required to be approved and registered by HMRC.
The claimant company had been approved and registered for some years, when HMRC revoked the registration on the basis that it was no longer fit and proper.
Like HMRCs decisions in the present case, the decision in CC & C Ltd was classed, for the purposes of sections 13A 16 of the FA 1994, as a decision relating to an ancillary matter.
The company appealed to the FTT against the decision and also commenced proceedings in the Administrative Court to obtain interim relief pending the determination of the appeal, claiming that there was a risk that it would be irreparably damaged meanwhile.
Underhill LJ, with whom the other members of the court agreed, had no doubt that the court has jurisdiction, in the formal sense, under section 37(1) of the [Senior Courts Act 1981] to make an order of the kind sought (para 38, and see also Lewison LJs short judgment commencing at para 48).
The court was concerned with the approach that should be taken to the exercise of that jurisdiction.
At para 39, Underhill LJ said that it was trite law that where Parliament has enacted a self