 concerned has a pending appeal with a realistic chance of success.
If the decision is challenged only on the basis that (iii) HMRC could not reasonably have come to it, the case falls within section 16 of the Finance Act 1994 and the court should not intervene. (iv) If the challenge to the decision is on some other ground outside the statutory regime the court may entertain judicial review or grant interim relief. (v) A definition of the additional element needed is elusive but would include abuse of power, impropriety and unfairness as envisaged in Harley Development Inc v Comr of Inland Revenue [1996] 1 WLR 727.
Having lost their argument that CC & C Ltd had been decided per incuriam or should be distinguished, the wholesalers accepted that their cases did not fall within any of what Burnett LJ described (para 73) as the exceptions identified as examples in CC & C Ltd but submitted that interim relief should be granted because otherwise there was a risk that their rights under article 6 and article 1 protocol 1 (A1P1) of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) would be violated.
The argument, both in relation to article 6 and A1P1, was put on the basis that by the time the appeal is heard, the wholesalers would have ceased to be viable and their appeals to the FTT would be ineffective.
The Court of Appeal found it sufficient to deal with the argument by focussing on article 6 alone, finding it unnecessary to explore the altogether more complicated route of A1P1, para 82, and in due course I will take the same approach.
Burnett LJs conclusion was as follows: 81.
In my opinion, a statutory appeal against a refusal of approval which is unable to provide a remedy before an appellant has been forced out of business, rendering the appeal entirely academic (or theoretical or illusory in the language of the Strasbourg Court) is capable of giving rise to a violation of article 6 which the High Court would be entitled to prevent by the grant of appropriate injunctive relief under section 37 of the 1981 Act.
To that extent, the exceptions enumerated by Underhill LJ in the CC & C Ltd case [2015] 1 WLR 4043 can be expanded to include cases in which a claimant can demonstrate, to a high degree of probability, that the absence of interim relief would violate its ECHR rights.
Moreover, such an injunction need not be ancillary to a claim for judicial review of any decision of HMRC, although it might be.
Burnett LJs reasoning for his conclusion (see paras 77 to 81) involved the following steps: i) The dispute concerns civil rights and obligations for the purposes of article 6, see Tre Traktrer AB v Sweden (1989) 13 EHRR 309, in which the Strasbourg court concluded that there was a violation of article 6 where a company had its licence to sell alcohol revoked by two administrative bodies, neither of which was a court or tribunal. ii) Unlike in Tre Traktrer AB, the wholesalers have appeals to the FTT which satisfy the requirement for a hearing by a tribunal. iii) However, the ECHR is intended to guarantee rights that are practical and effective, not theoretical or illusory, see Airey v Ireland (1979) 2 EHRR 305 and other authorities set out at para 80 of Burnett LJs judgment. iv) If an appellant is forced out of business before the statutory appeal concludes, the appeal is rendered theoretical or illusory.
It is important to recognise the lack of debate that there was in the Court of Appeal about this element of the case.
At para 