 in section 9.
It is put this way in their written case: Allowing a decision maker to do something that that decision maker could otherwise not do in the performance of a function is precisely what ancillary and incidental powers do.
If an ancillary power never enables the decision maker to do something that the decision maker otherwise lacks the power to do, then the ancillary power is left with nothing to do.
I have no doubt that there are situations in which the sort of considerations identified by the wholesalers in this passage would lead the court to accept that the Commissioners have indeed got ancillary powers of one sort or another.
But it all depends upon the general attributes, and detailed provisions, of the particular statutory scheme in relation to which the question arises, and the nature of the ancillary powers being considered.
There are, in the authorities, plentiful statements to this effect, made in various contexts, see for example the following, from Hazell v Hammersmith and Fulham London Borough Council [1992] 2 AC 1 at p 31D E: The authorities deal with widely different statutory functions but establish the general proposition that when a power is claimed to be incidental, the provisions of the statute which confer and limit functions must be considered and construed.
Section 9 concerns ancillary powers which are necessary or expedient in connection with the Commissioners exercise of their functions, or incidental or conducive to that exercise, not ancillary powers which undermine or contradict those functions.
I do not accept that recourse can be had to it to provide an alternative route to time limited approval, supplementing section 88C in the way that the wholesalers suggest.
I say that not only because of the terms of section 88C itself, which permit authorisation only under that section (approval given by the Commissioners under this section), but also because of the attributes of the whole scheme of which section 88C forms part.
Rather than assisting the Commissioners exercise of their functions under the scheme, such a use would, in my view, undermine the scheme.
To start with section 88C itself, it is important to take sections 88C(1) and (2) together.
By subsection (1), a person may not carry on a controlled activity otherwise than in accordance with an approval given by the Commissioners under section 88C.
By subsection (2), the Commissioners may only give the required approval if they are satisfied that the person is a fit and proper person to carry on the activity.
So where, as here, they are not so satisfied, they may not give approval under section 88C, and without approval under section 88C, the person may not carry on the controlled activity.
Amongst the consequences that follow if he does act without approval, the person will be guilty of an offence (section 88G).
It can hardly be said to be necessary or expedient to the exercise of the functions under that tightly drafted scheme, which has at its heart that the Commissioners will only approve people to sell controlled liquor wholesale if satisfied that they are fit and proper to do so, for the Commissioners to be able to draw upon the ancillary powers in section 9 to grant approval to someone in relation to whom they are not satisfied, nor yet can that be said to be incidental or conducive to the exercise of their functions under the scheme.
Furthermore, approval granted under section 9 would not be of any practical assistance to the wholesaler unless he were also put on the register of approved persons under section 88D.
By sections 88F and 88G, a person may commit a criminal offence by buying from a person who is not approved, and would need to have recourse to the register to confirm the status of the wholesaler before buying.
By using section 9 powers to enter the wholesaler on