 they erred. 55. there is nothing in the statutory scheme relied upon by HMRC which excludes the possibility of what amounts to an ancillary application for temporary approval in the face of a refusal of the general application.
In the light of these conclusions, Burnett LJ determined (para 87) that HMRCs decisions that they had no power to grant temporary approval to the wholesalers to trade pending appeal should be quashed, and the question returned to them for reconsideration.
HMRC submit that the Court of Appeal was wrong to conclude that they had power to grant temporary approval to the wholesalers under section 88C.
However, if it is found that section 88C does confer such power then, in HMRCs submission, the Court of Appeal was correct as to the criteria for the exercise of the power.
It is necessary to appreciate exactly how HMRC put their criticism of the Court of Appeal.
The following passage from their written case goes to the heart of the argument: It is therefore submitted that HMRC could not properly conclude someone was not fit and proper to carry on the controlled activity (even on conditions which include the power to approve for a limited time only); yet then separately conclude in response to a request that the same business and leadership might be fit and proper to carry on the controlled activity pending appeal to the FTT against the first finding (Emphasis in the original) From this, it is clear that HMRCs argument is addressed to a situation in which they have already concluded that someone is not fit and proper even for a limited period, and whatever conditions might be imposed.
In their submission, the introduction of an extraneous factor which has nothing to do with fitness and propriety (ie the fact that an appeal is pending) cannot alter this assessment of fitness.
The wholesalers appear to interpret HMRCs argument rather differently.
They have taken HMRC to be contending that whether a person is fit and proper is an absolute question, that must be determined without considering whether the imposition of a time limit or other conditions might make it possible to approve someone as fit and proper.
For example, they refer, in their written case, to HMRCs thesis that unless it is satisfied that a person is fit and proper to carry on a controlled activity (ie without consideration of whether that person might be fit and proper for a period, with conditions, with restrictions or any combination
of these) it cannot approve a person under section 88C
If HMRC were advancing the thesis there set out, it would be an untenable one, in my view.
But as I have said, they are not doing so.
They are not insisting that absolute fitness and propriety is required in all cases, but addressing the situation where, as here, they have concluded that no conditions or limitations will enable them to be satisfied that the person is fit and proper.
The power to incorporate such conditions/limitations is always present, and the relevant technical guidance given to HMRC officers making AWRS decisions specifically drew attention to the option of approval with conditions, including an example of imposing a time limit on the approval.
On the facts of these appeals, HMRC had nevertheless concluded that the wholesalers were not fit and proper.
I would accept their argument that in those circumstances there is no power to grant temporary approval pending appeal.
If the person is not fit and proper for even a limited period of time, that holds good whatever purpose the time limited approval would be designed to achieve.
If considerations of hardship and the impact that maintaining the decision would have on the efficacy of the appeal were relevant to HMRCs decision, it might be different.
But I am satisfied that the Court of Appeal was right to conclude that such considerations are not to the point.
Section 88C operates through the medium of HMRC being satisfied that the