 is to cease to have effect from such time as the tribunal may direct; (b) to require the Commissioners to conduct, in accordance with the directions of the tribunal, a review or further review as appropriate of the original decision; and (c) in the case of a decision which has already been acted on or taken effect and cannot be remedied by a review or further review as appropriate, to declare the decision to have been unreasonable and to give directions to the Commissioners as to the steps to be taken the that unreasonableness do not occur when comparable circumstances arise in future. repetitions of
for securing
These limited powers contrast with the wider powers available to the FTT, under section 16(5), when dealing with other relevant decisions which are not classed as decisions as to ancillary matters.
In those appeals, the FTT can also vary the decision or quash it and substitute its own decision.
It is to be noted that, in ALDA appeals such as the present ones, FA 1994 gives the FTT no power to suspend the effect of a challenged decision pending an appeal, nor is any such power contained in the Tribunal Procedure (First tier Tribunal) (Tax Chamber) Rules 2009 (SI 2009/273).
This contrasts with the position in appeals relating to relevant decisions which come within section 13A(2)(a) (h) of FA 1994, which include a variety of decisions as to payment of duties, levies, assessments, security and penalties.
Normally, by section 16(3) of FA 1994, an appeal in such a case will not be entertained unless the amount of duty which HMRC have determined, by the challenged decision, is payable has been paid or deposited with them.
However, the appeal can proceed without full payment if HMRC issue a certificate stating that they have accepted such security as appears to them to be adequate, or that, on the grounds of the hardship that would otherwise be suffered by the appellant, they do not require security or have accepted such lesser security as they consider appropriate.
If no certificate is issued, the appellant will be able to bring the appeal nonetheless, if the FTT decides that the certificate should not have been refused, and are satisfied that HMRC have been given such security (if any) as it would have been reasonable for them to accept.
The Court of Appeal in the present case said (para 29) that this amounts to the FTT having a circumscribed power to provide interim relief.
The Commissioners of Revenue and Customs Act 2005, section 9
Section 9(1) of the 2005 Act confers ancillary powers on HMRC in the following terms: The Commissioners may do anything which they think (a) necessary or expedient in connection with the exercise of their functions, or (b) functions.
incidental or conducive to the exercise of their
Section 51(2) of the 2005 Act provides the following assistance in interpreting the meaning of functions: (2) In this Act (a) function means any power or duty (including a power or duty that is ancillary to another power or duty), and (b) a reference to the functions of the Commissioners or of officers of Revenue and Customs is a reference to the functions conferred by or by virtue of this Act, or (i) (ii) by or by virtue of any enactment passed or made after the commencement of this Act.
Issue 1A: what powers do HMRC have under section 88C ALDA to permit trading pending the determination of an appeal to the FTT?
When HMRC refuse approval under section 88C, do they nevertheless have power under that section to grant temporary approval pending a wholesalers appeal to the FTT?