 to the High Courts powers is narrowly confined for procedural reasons.
Only the wholesalers sought to appeal against the Court of Appeals determination on this aspect of the case.
Their notice of appeal sought permission to appeal on three grounds.
The first ground challenged the Court of Appeals decision that section 9 of the 2005 Act did not give HMRC any power to permit temporary trading pending the outcome of an appeal to the FTT.
Permission was given for this ground to be pursued and I have addressed it above.
Ground 2 was that the Court of Appeal were wrong to conclude that it was only in exceptional circumstances that the High Court could grant interim relief pending an appeal to the FTT.
Ground 3 was that the Court of Appeal were wrong to conclude that even where implementation of HMRCs decision prior to the outcome of an appeal to the FTT would violate a wholesalers ECHR rights, the High Court should not grant interim relief as the first port of call must be to the FTT to expedite the appeal.
Permission to appeal was not granted in relation to either of these grounds.
In these circumstances, both parties understandably approached the appeal to this court on the basis that the High Court has power to grant injunctive relief where the wholesalers article 6 rights would otherwise be infringed by the business ceasing to be viable before the FTT could consider the matter, rendering the appeal provided by statute entirely academic, and that the circumstances in which that power would be exercised were as set out in CC & C Ltd, as interpreted by the Court of Appeal in the present case.
This courts refusal of permission to appeal in relation to the High Courts injunctive powers immunises that position from challenge in the present proceedings.
Furthermore, it has not been the role of this court to review the established finding that the evidence produced by the wholesalers in support of their application for injunctive relief on an article 6 basis failed to meet the required standard (see para 86 of Burnett LJs judgment, set out above).
The question that arose during the course of the hearing before us was the discrete question of what form the High Courts order could legitimately take, where a case for injunctive relief was made out.
If minded to make an order, what, if anything, could the High Court order HMRC to do to protect the position of a wholesaler pending appeal? Supplementary written submissions were provided following the hearing directed to this point.
(3) The parties supplementary submissions
In their supplementary submissions, both sides adhere to the position that the Court of Appeal was correct to conclude that the power in section 37 of the Senior Courts Act 1981 could be exercised in the AWRS context, in exceptional cases.
HMRC emphasise the breadth of the High Courts power under section 37, being a power to make orders and grant interim relief whenever it considers it just and convenient to do so, including when necessary to protect effective rights of access to court, whether derived from article 6 of the ECHR or the common law.
This enables it, they say, to make an order which will have the effect of holding the ring pending the appeal, unconstrained by the limitations and conditions imposed upon HMRC by the legislation and public law principles.
They also submit that Parliament can be taken to have enacted the AWRS on the basis that the High Courts powers to grant interim relief remain intact.
In their submission, an order can be made requiring them to give the wholesaler provisional approval, under section 88C, to sell controlled liquor, and also to add the wholesaler to the section 88D register.
They support this on the basis that, although they could not act in this way of their own initiative, they could do so pursuant to a court order because the courts role is part of the statutory scheme.
In the