 HMRC would assess whether an applicant was fit and proper to carry on a controlled activity.
It contains a list of relevant points, and a general statement that: HMRC must be satisfied the business is genuine and that all persons with an important role or interest in it are law abiding, responsible, and dont pose any significant threat in terms of potential revenue non compliance or fraud.
Para 10 dealt with conditions and restrictions.
It said that HMRC may decide to apply specific conditions or restrictions where they consider that a wholesaler is fit and proper to be approved but some additional controls are still needed, which would be used to address specific concerns HMRC had about the business.
In contrast, if HMRC considered a wholesaler was not fit and proper to be approved, approval would be refused or revoked rather than allowing the wholesaler to trade subject to added conditions.
In para 15(4), which dealt with revocation by HMRC of an existing approval, circumstances were identified in which approval was likely to be revoked, and it was pointed out that the controlled activity could not be carried on after revocation.
However, the paragraph ended with a passage to which it will be necessary to return: Where HMRC think the circumstances merit, they may allow a reasonable period of time to wind down the business, for example, to dispose of any legitimate stock.
Doubts have been expressed about HMRCs power to allow a period of grace in this way.
The version of EN2002 published on 27 March 2017 put the position in relation to disposal of stock on winding down on a rather firmer footing by providing, under regulation 10 of the 2015 Regulations, for such sales to be excluded sales.
Challenging a refusal of approval
A wholesaler can challenge HMRCs refusal of approval by seeking a review of it by HMRC and/or appealing to the FTT.
Sections 13A 16 of the Finance Act 1994 (FA 1994) (as amended by article 1(2) of and Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions and Revenue and Customs Appeals Order 2009 (SI 2009/56) govern the review and appeal process.
Reviews are covered by section 15A F.
By section 15F, the nature and extent of the review are such as appear appropriate to HMRC in the circumstances, but account must be taken of representations made.
The review may conclude that the decision is to be upheld, varied, or cancelled.
An appeal to the FTT can be brought either as an alternative to seeking a review or, where there has been a review, against the review decision.
The provisions as to appeals are set out in section 16.
A central concept is that of a relevant decision.
This is defined in section 13A which, in subsection (2)(a) (j), lists the decisions which are relevant decisions.
A decision for the purposes of Part 6A of ALDA as to whether or not a person is to be approved and registered, or as to the conditions or restrictions on approval and registration, features in subsection (2)(j).
By section 16(8) of FA 1994, such a decision is classed as an ancillary matter.
Section 16(4) sets out the FTTs powers on an appeal in relation to any decision as to an ancillary matter, or any decision on the review of such a decision.
It provides that the tribunals powers shall be confined to a power, where the tribunal are satisfied that the Commissioners or other person making that decision could not reasonably have arrived at it, to do one or more of the following, that is to say (a) to direct that the decision, so far as it remains in force,