The Finance Act 2015 introduced a regulatory scheme requiring wholesalers supplying duty paid alcohol to be approved by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs Commissioners (HMRC or the Commissioners) under section 88C of the Alcoholic Liquor Duties Act 1979 (ALDA).
Approval may only be given if HMRC are satisfied that the person seeking to carry on the activity is a fit and proper person to do so.
OWD, Hollandwest and Budge Brands (the wholesalers) were already involved in the wholesale supply of duty paid alcohol when the scheme was introduced.
They needed HMRC approval to continue to trade.
Approval was refused because HMRC were not satisfied that they were fit and proper.
Each wholesaler appealed to the First tier Tribunal (FTT) against the decision, inviting HMRC to permit them to continue trading whilst the appeals were pending.
When HMRC refused to permit this, the wholesalers brought judicial review proceedings in the High Court challenging that refusal, and seeking orders that would permit them to carry on trading until after the determination of the FTT appeal.
Having failed in the High Court, they obtained a measure of relief in the Court of Appeal, but on terms that they did not find satisfactory.
Both they and HMRC appeal to this court against aspects of the Court of Appeals decision.
The principal questions for determination in this court
Two principal questions arise for determination on the appeal.
The first, in broad outline, is this: when HMRC have refused a persons application for approval under section 88C of ALDA, what, if any, power do they have to permit that person to carry on trading pending the determination of an appeal to the FTT?
HMRCs case is that they have no power to grant temporary approval pending the determination of a wholesalers appeal.
The wholesalers argue that section 88C of ALDA enables HMRC to grant such approval or, failing that, HMRC can do so under section 9 of the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act 2005 (the 2005 Act).
The Court of Appeal held that temporary approval can be granted to a person under section 88C of ALDA, but not under section 9 of the 2005 Act.
However, contrary to the wholesalers argument, it held that considerations of hardship and the impact on the persons appeal rights were irrelevant to the decision whether to grant temporary approval to cover the appeal period, and that HMRCs focus must be purely on whether the person was fit and proper for that limited purpose.
The issues that require attention in relation to this first question are, therefore, whether HMRC have any power at all, and if so, on what basis it is to be exercised.
The second question concerns the position if HMRC either do not have power to permit trading pending the determination of an appeal to the FTT, or have power but decline to exercise it.
In those circumstances, what interim relief, if any, can the High Court grant to ensure that the appeal to the FTT is not thwarted by the wholesaler going out of business whilst awaiting its determination?
The Court of Appeal held that the High Court was able to grant injunctive relief under section 37 of the Senior Courts Act 1981.
Drawing on CC & C Ltd v Revenue and Customs Comrs [2014] EWCA Civ 1653; [2015] 1 WLR 4043 (CC & C Ltd), it held that relief would only be granted in rare circumstances, but that this could include where there was a clear and properly evidenced claim that a failure to grant interim relief would render the appeal to the FTT illusory.
This accorded with the position of HMRC.
The wholesalers disagreed with the narrow limits imposed by the Court of Appeal on the scope for relief, but