 contained scheme for challenging decisions, it would normally be wrong for the High Court to permit such decisions to be challenged by way of judicial review.
He cited a passage from a judgment of the Privy Council, in Harley Development Inc v Comr of Inland Revenue [1996] 1 WLR 727, 735 736, culminating in the following: Their Lordships consider that, where a statute lays down a comprehensive system of appeals procedure against administrative decisions, it will only be in exceptional circumstances, typically an abuse of power, that the courts will entertain an application for judicial review of a decision which has not been appealed.
Underhill LJ set out in paras 41 and 42 why, where Parliament could have made provision for suspensory orders to be made pending appeal to the FTT but had not done so, the court was not entitled to intervene to grant a trader interim relief simply on the basis that there is a pending appeal with a realistic chance of success.
But, he said, it did not follow that there were no circumstances in which the court may grant such relief, and he noted that HMRC did not so contend.
He went on, in paras 43 and 44, to set out when relief may be granted.
He said that: where the challenge to the decision is not simply that it is unreasonable but that it is unlawful on some other ground, then the case falls outside the statutory regime and there is nothing objectionable in the court entertaining a claim for judicial review or, where appropriate, granting interim relief in connection with that claim.
A precise definition of that additional element may be elusive and is unnecessary for present purposes.
The authorities cited in the Harley Development case refer to abuse of power, impropriety and unfairness. [Counsel for HMRC] referred to cases where HMRC had behaved capriciously or outrageously or in bad faith.
Those terms sufficiently indicate the territory that we are in, but I would sound a note of caution about capricious and unfair.
A decision is sometimes referred to rhetorically as capricious where all that is meant is that it is one which could not reasonably have been reached; but in this context that is not enough, since a challenge on that basis falls within the statutory regime.
As for unfair, I am not convinced that any allegation of procedural unfairness, however closely connected with the substantive unreasonableness alleged, will always be sufficient to justify the intervention of the court: [counsel for HMRC] submitted that cases of unfairness would fall within the statutory regime to the extent that the unfairness impugned the reasonableness of the decision.
As I have noted above, the types of unfairness contemplated in [R v Inland Revenue Comrs, Ex p Preston [1985] AC 835] which is the source of the use of the term in the Harley Development case were of a fairly fundamental character.
But since procedural unfairness is not relied on in this case I need not consider the point further.
Summarising his conclusion at para 44, he said that the court may entertain a claim where it is arguable that the decision was not simply unreasonable but was unlawful on one of the more fundamental bases identified above.
He said that such cases will, of their nature, be exceptional.
The CC & C case was not one of them, and relief was not available.
following components: In the present case, Burnett LJ analysed the ratio of CC & C as having the 61. (i) The High Court has jurisdiction to grant an injunction maintaining registration pending appeal to the FTT, which has been revoked by HMRC, when a parallel challenge to that decision is made in judicial review proceedings. (ii) The jurisdiction should not be exercised simply on the basis that the person