 services of a general tax on consumption which was proportional to their price.
The Second Council Directive 67/228/EEC, also of 11 April 1967, on the harmonisation of legislation concerning turnover taxes and procedures for application of the common system of VAT (the Second Directive) made further provision for harmonisation and recorded in its fifth recital that the introduction of zero rates of tax gave rise to difficulties and it was highly desirable to limit strictly the number of exemptions.
However, article 10 of the Second Directive exempted from VAT in any member state the supply of goods to places outside the territory of that state and the provision of services relating to such goods or goods in transit, and, of particular relevance to this appeal, also provided that, subject to consultation, any member state could determine the other exemptions it considered necessary.
The First and Second Directives were followed by the Sixth Council Directive 77/388/EEC of 17 May 1977 on the harmonization of the laws of member states relating to turnover taxes (the Sixth Directive).
This recited the need for a common system of exemptions and, in Title X, article 13, part A, made express provision for the exemption of certain activities in the public interest, including the supply of services related to education.
Article 13A(1) provided, so far as material: A. Exemptions for certain activities in the public interest 1.
Without prejudice to other Community provisions, member states shall exempt the following under conditions which they shall lay down for the purpose of ensuring the correct and straightforward application of such exemptions and of preventing any possible evasion, avoidance or abuse: (i) childrens or young peoples education, school or university education, vocational training or retraining, including the supply of services and of goods closely related thereto, provided by bodies governed by public law having such as their aim or by other organizations defined by the member state concerned as having similar objects.
Article 13A(2) contained examples of the conditions member states might impose when recognising other organisations having similar objects to those of public bodies.
It provided, so far as material: 2(a) Member states may make the granting to bodies other than those governed by public law of each exemption provided for in (1) (i) of this article subject in each individual case to one or more of the following conditions: they shall not systematically aim to make a profit, but any profits nevertheless arising shall not be distributed, but shall be assigned to the continuance or improvement of the services supplied, exemption of the services concerned shall not be likely to create distortions of competition such as to place at a disadvantage commercial enterprises liable to value added tax.
In due course the Sixth Directive was itself recast by Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax (the Principal VAT Directive).
Recital (4) of the Principal VAT Directive reiterates the objective of the legislative scheme as being to harmonise legislation on turnover taxes and eliminate, so far as possible, factors which may distort competition.
It reads: The attainment of the objective of establishing an internal market presupposes the application in member states of legislation on turnover taxes that does not distort conditions of competition or hinder the free movement of goods and services.
It is therefore necessary to achieve such harmonisation of legislation on turnover taxes by means of a system of value added tax (VAT), such as will eliminate, as far as possible, factors which may distort conditions of competition, whether at national or Community level.
Title IX sets out various exemptions, including the exemption concerning the provision of university education first introduced in the Sixth Directive in the manner I have described.
Article 131 of Chapter 1 of Title IX provides: The exemptions provided