Supplies of education to students in the United Kingdom are exempt from value added tax (VAT) if they are made by a college of a university within the meaning of Note 1(b) to Item 1, Group 6 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 (the VAT Act).
This appeal concerns the criteria to be applied in determining whether an undertaking is such a college.
In these proceedings the appellant (SEL) contends that its supplies of education to students in the United Kingdom were and are exempt from VAT because it was and remains a college of Middlesex University (MU).
For this reason, it appealed against assessments raised by the Commissioners for Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (the Commissioners) in respect of its accounting periods 1 May 2009 to 29 February 2012.
It has also appealed against subsequent assessments, but these have been stayed by agreement with the Commissioners pending the outcome of this appeal.
SELs appeal was allowed by the First tier Tribunal (the FTT, Judge John Clark and Dr Michael James MBE) by its decision dated 28 February 2014: TC/2011/022521.
The Commissioners appealed that decision to the Upper Tribunal (the UT, Judge Colin Bishopp and Judge Guy Brannan) which allowed the appeal by its decision dated 25 April 2016: [2016] UKUT 193 (TCC); [2016] STC 1837.
SEL then appealed to the Court of Appeal.
The appeal was heard over three days in June 2017.
The Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal by its decision dated 28 July 2017 (Patten, Black and Sales LJJ): [2017] EWCA Civ 1116; [2017] STC 2166.
SEL now appeals to this court.
In broad terms the appeal gives rise to the following questions: first, whether the Court of Appeal adopted the correct approach in determining whether SEL was a college of MU for the purposes of Note 1(b) to Item 1, Group 6 of the VAT Act; and secondly, if it did not, whether, upon application of the correct test, SEL was such a college.
The relevant facts
SEL is an English company and a subsidiary of SAE Technology Group BV, a Dutch company.
Both are part of the SAE group of companies which trades around the world under the name SAE Institute (SAEI).
SAE is an acronym for School of Audio Engineering and SAEI has for many years provided education in audio and digital media technologies, and as a result has gained a significant reputation in that field.
SAEI has conducted business in the United Kingdom since 1985, first through SAE Educational Trust Ltd (SETL) and, since 1 May 2009, through SEL.
From that date SEL has taught in the United Kingdom the higher education courses to which I shall come in a moment.
MU is a United Kingdom university within the meaning of the VAT Act, Group 6, Item 1, Note 1(b).
It has never had any financial interest in any SAE group company, and no MU employee has ever been a director of any such company.
Similarly, no SAE group company has had a representative on MUs governing body or has played any direct part in its governance.
Nevertheless, the relationship between MU and SAEI has been very close and is a reflection of a series of agreements addressing the nature of that relationship, the validation by MU of SAEI programmes of education and the accreditation of SAE group companies.
As early as 1998 SAEI and MU agreed a memorandum of cooperation which provided for the teaching by SAE Technology College of Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree courses in Recording and Multimedia