 [2001] ECR I 249, para 23).
However, if the undertaking by State universities of research projects for consideration is made subject to VAT, that does not have the effect of increasing the cost of university education.
That does not mean that all organisations which provide educational services may be granted a tax exemption by member states, however.
The services must be provided by organisations governed by public law or by other organisations recognised by the member state in issue as having similar objects.
It is essentially for this combination of reasons that the CJEU held in MDDP that articles 132(1) and 133 of the Principal VAT Directive do not preclude the inclusion of educational services provided by private organisations for commercial purposes in the tax exemption but do preclude a general exemption of all supplies of educational services without consideration of the objects pursued by the private organisations which are providing them.
In implementing articles 132 and 133 of the Principal VAT Directive, the United Kingdom and other member states therefore had a discretion in deciding which bodies, other than those governed by public law, they would recognise as providing educational services, including university education.
But that discretion was limited in the manner I have described, and whilst it was open to member states to exempt educational services provided by private bodies for commercial purposes, they could not do so without consideration of the objects those bodies pursued.
It was also limited in other important respects for, in implementing the Directive, member states were required to respect the general principles of law that form part of the order of the European Union, including the principles of fiscal neutrality, legal certainty and proportionality.
As I have explained, Parliament has chosen to exercise the discretion conferred upon it by exempting from VAT, so far as relevant, the provision of education by a United Kingdom university and any college of such a university.
The term university is not defined in the VAT Act.
However, the conditions under which a body in the United Kingdom is entitled to use the word university in its title are regulated by statute.
Over 100 bodies are presently entitled to call themselves a university and they vary greatly in character.
A small but nonetheless significant number of them are private and run for profit.
Some, such as the University of London, are collegiate federal universities in which, for many purposes, the constituent colleges operate on an independent basis.
Others, such as the University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge, comprise a kind of federal system of colleges, schools and faculties, in which the colleges are generally financially independent and self governing.
These are just examples.
Other universities also comprise or have close relationships with colleges, including the University of the Arts London, the University of the Highlands and Islands and Queens University of Belfast.
The connection between each of these universities and its respective colleges has its own particular character and is a reflection of the history of the institutions involved.
It is against the background of the range of possible arrangements between universities and their colleges that the meaning of the phrase college of such a university in Note (1)(b) falls to be determined.
In my judgment the following points are material.
First, for its activities to fall within the scope of Item 1(a), any college of a university, as an eligible body, must provide education.
Secondly and as we have seen, the supply of educational services is exempt only if it is provided by bodies governed by public law or by other bodies recognised by the member state as having similar objects.
Parliament has exercised the discretion conferred upon it by recognising for this purpose the provision of education by universities, and it has done so regardless of whether those universities are charities or are private and run for profit.
If, as I believe, the phrase a United Kingdom university in Note 1(b) therefore extends to private universities which are run for profit then in my opinion the same must apply