 Arts at specified campuses.
These courses were described as validated collaborative programmes of MU.
Overall responsibility for the courses was retained by MU but their day to day direction was undertaken by employees of an SAEI group company.
Over the years that followed this memorandum was superseded by other memoranda of cooperation and the validation of BA degree courses in Multimedia, Interactive Animation and Games Programming.
In 2009 another memorandum of cooperation was agreed which consolidated into a single framework the programmes which had by that time been validated by earlier memoranda.
It set out the terms on which MU agreed to validate specified courses and how entry requirements were to be set and satisfied.
In short, admission requirements would be set by SAEI but conform to MUs general requirements; students who met those requirements would be selected by SAEI using procedures agreed by MU; selected students would be enrolled by SAEI for one of MUs qualifications; enrolled students would be considered members of MU and taught by SAEI subject to MUs quality safeguards; and in due course those enrolled students would be assessed by SAEI subject to MUs regulations and, if they completed their programmes of study successfully, would be awarded a degree by MU.
From time to time SAEI and MU also entered into what have been termed partnership agreements which made more general provision relating to the relationship between them.
The first such agreement, entered into in 2003, recorded the intention of the parties to work together to develop undergraduate and taught graduate degree courses at SAEI centres in the United Kingdom and around the world.
It was intended at that time that within five years MU would consider an application from SAEI for MU accreditation which would allow SAEI to validate for itself courses leading to the award of undergraduate degrees by MU.
In 2009 SAEI and MU entered into another partnership agreement which recorded that within 12 months MU would consider an application from SAEI for such accreditation.
To this end, it was agreed that senior executives of MU and SAEI would meet three times a year to develop their collaboration on undergraduate and postgraduate courses of study.
In September 2010 SAEI was accredited by MU to validate, provide, monitor and review courses of study leading to MU BA degrees in Recording Arts, Film Making, Digital Film Animation and Multimedia articles The instrument of accreditation permitted SAEI to conduct MU graduation ceremonies but graduating students could also attend a graduation ceremony at MU if they so wished.
A memorandum of cooperation confirmed the independent status of SAEI and allowed it to retain its own governing council and academic board and responsibility for its own financial management.
In July 2011 MU and SAEI entered into what was described as a Special Associate College Agreement (SACA).
This recorded their successful cooperation over 14 years in the provision of courses of education, including courses leading to MU undergraduate and graduate awards.
It provided, by clause 2: As a further extension of that special relationship in the context of higher education in the United Kingdom, the University and SAE Education, UK (hereinafter referred to as SAE UK) have agreed a long term partnership, which is detailed below.
This builds upon the existing status of SAE UK as a Middlesex University Associate College.
The legal framework
The origin of the common system for the collection of VAT in the European Union lies in the First Council Directive 67/227/EC of 11 April 1967 on the harmonisation of legislation of member states concerning turnover taxes (the First Directive).
This recognised the interest of the common market in achieving a harmonisation of legislation concerning turnover taxes so as to eliminate, so far as possible, factors which might distort competition, and it provided, in article 2, that the principle of the common system involved the application to goods and