 to the expression any college of such a university.
There can be no justification for treating the scope of the two expressions differently in this respect.
Further, were it otherwise, private colleges of a university providing higher education services would be obliged to charge VAT on their supplies, rendering them more expensive and so restricting the opportunities of students to access them, contrary to the purpose of the exemption.
Thirdly, there is in my view nothing in Note 1(b) or the broader context which would justify limiting the scope of the phrase any college of such a university to colleges which are a constituent part of a university in a constitutional or structural sense.
To the contrary, if satisfaction of such a constituent part test were required, it would effectively exclude commercial providers such as SEL from the exemption for it is a test they will rarely if ever be able to satisfy.
That, so it seems to me, would be contrary to the principle of fiscal neutrality in the light of the decision by Parliament not to limit the bodies it has recognised in Note 1(b) to those which do not make a profit.
Fourthly, the United Kingdom must be taken to have recognised that a college (or, for that matter, a school or hall) of a university within the meaning of Note 1(b) has similar objects to those of a university which is governed by public law and which provides education to young people.
In my opinion this consideration focuses attention on the objects of the body in issue, the nature of the educational services that it supplies, and how integrated those services are with those of the university.
Put another way, it is necessary to examine the characteristics of those educational services and the context in which they are delivered rather than the precise nature of the legal and constitutional relationship between the body that provides them and its university.
Of course, I recognise that if a college is a part of a university in a constitutional or structural sense then it is overwhelmingly likely that any educational services it provides will reflect this relationship and so the college may properly be regarded as a college of that university within the meaning of Note 1(b).
But it does not follow that the converse is also true.
It is entirely possible that an independent and private body which conducts its business of providing education for profit will be so integrated with a university that its educational activities and objects are indistinguishable from those of a college which is constitutionally part of the university or, indeed, from those of the university itself.
All of these matters point to the conclusion that the integration test explained in the SFM case and adopted by the FTT is essentially correct.
However, I think the factors to be considered do need some refinement.
As I have said, the presence of a foundation or constitutional document or some other legal relationship establishing the college as a constituent part of the university in a constitutional or structural sense will be sufficient to prove that it is a college of the university within the meaning of Note 1(b), save in an exceptional case.
But that is not a necessary condition.
In assessing whether a body is a college of a university the following five questions are also likely to be highly relevant: (i) whether they have a common understanding that the body is a college of the university; (ii) whether the body can enrol or matriculate students as students of the university; (iii) whether those students are generally treated as students of the university during the course of their period of study; (iv) whether the body provides courses of study which are approved by the university; and (v) whether the body can in due course present its students for examination for a degree from the university.
If a body can establish the presence of each of these five features, focused as they are on the objects of the body, the relationship between the students of the body and the university and the degree to which