 in applying the principles of EU law, in particular the principle of equal treatment, which, in the field of VAT, takes the form of the principle of fiscal neutrality.
The answer to the referred question necessarily followed, as the CJEU explained at para 39: point (i) of article 132(1), article 133 and article 134, of the VAT Directive must be interpreted as meaning that they do not preclude educational services provided for commercial purposes by bodies not governed by public law from being exempt from VAT.
However, point (i) of article 132(1) of that directive precludes a general exemption of all supplies of educational services, without consideration of the objects pursued by non public organisations providing those services.
VAT was introduced to the United Kingdom by the Finance Act 1972 (the FA 1972) which implemented the First and Second Council Directives.
Parliament chose to exercise the wide discretion then conferred upon member states by exempting the various supplies set out in Schedule 5.
These included as Group 6, Item 1: The provision of education if it is provided by a school or university; or it is of a kind provided by a school or university (a) (b) and is provided otherwise than for profit.
Note (3) defined university as including a university college and the college, school or hall of a university.
The United Kingdom has given effect to the Principal VAT Directive (and before it, the Sixth Directive) in the VAT Act.
Exempt supplies are set out in Schedule 9.
Items 1 and 4 of Group 6 of Schedule 9 read, so far as material: 1.
The provision by an eligible body of (a) education; 4.
The supply of any goods or services (other than examination services) which are closely related to a supply of a description falling within item 1 (the principal supply) by or to the eligible body making the principal supply provided (a) the goods or services are for the direct use of the pupil, student or trainee (as the case may be) receiving the principal supply; and (b) where the supply is to the eligible body making the principal supply, it is made by another eligible body.
Note (1) then explains that: (1) For the purposes of this Group an eligible body is (b) a United Kingdom university, and any college, institution, school or hall of such a university; (e) a body which is precluded from distributing and does (i) not distribute any profit it makes; and (ii) applies any profits made from supplies of a description with this Group to the continuance or improvement of such supplies;
It can be seen that Parliament has not expressly limited the bodies it has
recognised in Note 1(b) to those which do not make a profit.
It will also be noted that the phrase any college, institution, school or hall of such a university in Note (1)(b) is similar to the phrase college, school or hall of a university in Schedule 5, Group 6, Item 1, Note (3) of the FA 1972, and this is a matter to which I must return.
Domestic authorities
The provisions of the VAT Act to which I have referred have been considered in a number of decisions of the courts in this jurisdiction.
For the purposes of this appeal, I must refer to three of them for they form an important part of the background to the decisions of the FTT, the UT and the Court of Appeal in this case.
The first is that of Burton J in Customs and Excise Comrs v School of Finance and Management (London) Ltd [2001] STC 1690.
The School of Finance and Management London (