 the activities of the body are recognised by and integrated with the university, then in my judgment it is highly likely to be a college of the university within the meaning of Note 1(b).
Again, I do not suggest that there may not be other cases where the degree of integration of the activities of the body and the university is such that it may properly be described as a college of the university in light of some or most of the factors I have identified and other aspects of the services it supplies.
All will depend on the particular circumstances of the case.
However, some of the SFM factors are, in my view, likely to be of much less assistance in light of the matters to which I have referred.
Here I have in mind: (i) whether the body is independent from the university; (ii) whether the body is financially dependent on the university, or whether the body and the university are financially interdependent; (iii) whether the body generates any distributable profit; (iv) whether the body is entitled to public funding; (v) the presence or absence of permanent links between the body and the university; (vi) the degree of physical proximity between the body and the university; and (vii) whether the body has any an obligation to offer a minimum number of university places.
I do not suggest that none of these matters will ever have any evidential weight.
For example, the duration of the relationship between the body and the university and how long it may be expected to last may have some relevance, if only as part of the background, but these and similar matters are unlikely to be determinative.
In my judgment it follows that the reasoning of Peter Gibson LJ in the University of Leicester Students Union case at para 36 (which I have set out at para 34 above) needs some qualification.
I accept that the words in those cases where there are separate entities which are nevertheless parts of the university, any of those separate entities in Note 1(b) include a college, institution, school or hall of a university which is separate from the university but which is nevertheless a part of it in a constitutional or structural sense.
But, for the reasons I have given, I do not accept that the scope of Note 1(b) is limited to such entities, and if that is what Peter Gibson LJ meant by the use of these words, I respectfully disagree with him.
In my view the correct approach was expressed succinctly by Arden LJ in FBT at para 55, which I have recited above.
The question is whether the college and the university are so integrated that the entity is imbued with the objects of the university, and that is best answered in the manner I have described.
Did the Upper Tribunal and the Court of Appeal fall into error?
The UT did not reject the integration approach or question the value of the SFM factors but introduced the sequential test which I have set out at para 39 above.
I recognise that if a taxpaying body is a college of a university one would expect to see some recognition of that by the university.
I also accept the importance of establishing that the university and the body have a common understanding that the body is a college of the university.
But it seems to me that these are matters which are best addressed in the context of and as part of the general assessment of their relationship, the extent to which their activities are integrated and whether they share the same objects.
That brings me to the judgment of Patten LJ in the Court of Appeal, with which Black and Sales LJJ agreed.
It is carefully reasoned and merits great respect.
His analysis began with the FA 1972.
He noted, entirely correctly, that it exempted the provision of education by an eligible body and that it defined the term university as including a university college