 to have held that the soft drinks were not supplied by the eligible body making the principal supply of education within the meaning of Item 4.
On further appeal to the Court of Appeal, the substantial argument was, as before the judge, whether the union was an integral part of the university and as such an eligible body.
The Court of Appeal found it was not.
It was not encompassed by the phrase a United Kingdom university for it was an entity distinct from the university.
Further, it was not an institution of such a university within the meaning of Note 1(b) because it supplied no education.
Peter Gibson LJ, with whom Morland J agreed, explained at para 36: 36.
Note 1(b) on its face refers to five entities, a United Kingdom University, and four entities of such a University.
The conjunction connecting a United Kingdom University with the four other entities is the word and, not including.
Further, the four other entities are alternative to each other as can be seen by the conjunction or between school and hall.
On the ordinary and natural meaning of the words used in note 1(b) I would construe them as covering both a university itself and, in those cases where there are separate entities which are nevertheless parts of that university, any of those separate entities.
Furthermore, the common characteristic of all those four entities in my opinion is that they are suppliers of education.
Arden LJ considered that the students union did promote an object of utility within the university community and was potentially an institution of the university.
But the question for her was whether the term institution had a narrower meaning in the context of Note (1)(b).
She answered that question in two steps, the first of which was to consider the meaning of the expression of such a university: 55.
Note 1(b) uses the expression the university and of the university.
In the latter expression the word of cannot mean belong to or form part of since the former is not the case with regard to Oxbridge colleges (which are presumably intended to be covered) and the latter is included within the expression the university.
In other words, the expression of the university seems to me to denote a state of affairs whereby the university is in some sense an umbrella organisation which provides education and related services in conjunction with other bodies or wherein the body in question has some form of status under the University statutes, for example to present candidates for matriculation.
The second was to consider the meaning of the word institution in this context.
Here she did not agree that a college, institution, school or hall of a university had itself to be a supplier of education.
For her the key question was whether the body in question had academic links with the university and so recognition from the university, and this the union did not have.
The third decision is that of the Court of Appeal in Finance and Business Training Ltd v Revenue and Customs Comrs [2016] EWCA Civ 7; [2016] STC 2190.
Here the question was whether the taxpayer, FBT, a profit making enterprise, was exempt from VAT in respect of the supply of courses leading to the grant of degrees by the University of Wales.
The FTT decided it was not.
Although it supplied a university education, FBT also had to show that it was an integrated part of the university, and that it had failed to do.
In reaching this conclusion, the FTT applied the SFM factors and attached particular weight to the nature of the relationship between FBT and the university, which it found to be short term, commercial and held out as being one of partnership.
An appeal to the UT was dismissed.
On further appeal to the Court of Appeal, it was argued by FBT, among other things, that Parliament had failed to set conditions for the