 and the college, school or hall of a university.
He also observed, again correctly, that at the time this exemption came into effect the relevant EU provisions on exemptions were those contained in article 10 of the Second Directive which, as we have seen, gave each member state a broad discretion as to which exemptions to create beyond the supply of goods to places outside that state, and services relating to such goods or goods in transit.
He concluded, and I agree, that the language of item 1 in the FA 1972 must be taken to represent what Parliament considered at that time should constitute the scope of the exemption for the supply of education by a university.
Patten LJ turned next to the meaning of the phrase college, school, or hall of a university in the context of United Kingdom universities as they operated in 1972.
Here, focusing on the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, he observed that their colleges and private halls, though self governing and legally independent, formed an integral part of the structure of their respective universities and that their members made up the universitys teaching staff and students.
Patten LJ also found support for his approach in the provisions of the Education Reform Act 1988 (the 1988 Act) and the Education (Listed Bodies) (England) Order 2010 (the 2010 Order) made under it.
The 1988 Act makes it an offence to award a degree that is not a recognised award.
Under section 214(2), a recognised award includes an award granted or to be granted by a university which is authorised by Royal Charter or Act of Parliament to grant degrees, and any award granted or to be granted by any body for the time being permitted by a university to act on its behalf.
Any such body falls within the definition of a recognised body in section 216(4).
Section 216(2) of the 1988 Act requires the Secretary of State to compile and publish by order a list of the names of the bodies which appear to him to fall within section 216(3) which provides, so far as relevant: (3) A body falls within this subsection if it is not a recognised body and it: (b) is a constituent college, school or hall or other institution of a university which is a recognised body.
The 2010 Order was made pursuant to section 216(2) and, as Patten LJ observed, it lists, among other bodies, all the colleges and halls of the universities of Oxford, Cambridge, Durham and Queens University Belfast, and the Institutes constituting the School of Advanced Study in the University of London.
I would add that the 2010 Order was revoked and replaced by The Education (Listed Bodies) (England) Order 2013 which came into force on 30 December 2013.
This expands the list of colleges and halls and includes one college of the University of South Wales and several colleges of the University of the Highlands and Islands.
It was notable, Patten LJ continued, that the provisions of section 216(3)(b) were all but identical to those of Schedule 5, Group 6, Item 1 of the FA 1972 in defining what was included in a university, and it was unlikely that the similarity between the provisions was accidental.
He recognised that the purpose of the two sets of provisions was very different but thought that both of them were seeking to identify the constituent parts of a university; and further, that the 1988 Act and the 2010 Order provided a useful illustration of how essentially the same statutory language had come to be interpreted and applied, albeit in the regulation of the granting of degrees.
Patten LJ turned next to the VAT Act.
Here he noted what he termed the stylistic and grammatical differences between Note 