 education exemption in accordance with EU law and, in particular, the principles of legal certainty and fiscal neutrality.
Arden LJ (with whom Gloster and Sharp LJJ agreed), rejected that submission.
She explained that it was up to each member state to set the conditions under which bodies not governed by public law would be entitled to the education exemption, and how it did so was a matter for national law.
It was therefore open to Parliament to decide which non public bodies would qualify, and it had done so in Note (1)(b).
However, Parliament was constrained by article 132(1)(i) as to which bodies it could include.
She continued, at paras 55 to 57: 55.
In those circumstances, it has taken the view that the body must be one which provides education in like manner to a body governed by public law, that is, there must be a public interest element in its work.
It has decided to draw the line, in the case of universities to those colleges, halls and schools which are integrated into universities and which are therefore imbued with its objects. 56.
For FBT to show that its exclusion from this group is a breach of the fiscal neutrality principle would require it to say that it belongs to the same class as those institutions which meet the integration test in Note (1)(b).
Neither of the tribunals made any findings that would support that conclusion and this court is hearing an appeal only on a point of law. 57.
FBT contends that Parliament has not met the requirements of the EU law principle of legal certainty by setting out criteria which are to apply to determine when non public bodies seek to enjoy the education exemption.
The criteria have to be neutral, abstract and defined in advance.
In my judgment, this is achieved by the combination of note (1)(b) and the SFM factors.
These factors are neutral, they are abstract and defined in advance.
By applying them, it is possible to know what supplies and which suppliers qualify for exemption.
The decisions below
(a) The First tier Tribunal
The FTT carried out a multi factorial assessment in order to determine whether SEL was sufficiently integrated with MU to justify the conclusion that it was a college of the university and for that purpose considered each of the 15 SFM factors.
In carrying out that exercise, it conducted an extensive analysis of the evidence.
Having done so, it was satisfied that SEL, as the United Kingdom arm of SAEI, had since May 2009 been an Associate College of MU, and a college of MU within the meaning of Note 1(b).
It set out the factors which it considered carried the greatest weight at para 293: (1) Status of Associated College, combined from September 2010 with status of Accredited Institution. (2) Long term links between SAE Institute and MU.
Similar purposes to those of a university, namely the provision of higher education of a university standard. (3) Courses leading to a degree from MU, such courses being supervised by MU, which regulated their quality standards. (4) Conferment of degrees by MU, received by SAE students at MU degree ceremonies.
(b) The Upper Tribunal
On further appeal by the Commissioners, the UT adopted an approach which differed in some respects from that of the FTT.
It explained that it is necessary to adopt a multi step evaluation of the relationship between the undertaking and the university.
It must first be determined whether they had a common understanding of their relationship.
If they did, the next question is whether they had a common understanding that the undertaking was a college of the university.
If the answer to that question is also in the affirmative, it must be considered whether the relationship was sufficiently close to justify the conclusion that the undertaking was indeed a college of the