 university within the meaning of Note 1(b), and it is here that the SFM factors are relevant.
If the relationship was sufficiently close, the final step is to consider whether the undertaking supplied university level education.
It was the UTs view that the FTT failed properly to take the first and second steps, and had it done so it would have found that they should be answered in the negative.
It therefore allowed the Commissioners appeal.
(c) The Court of Appeal
The approach of the Court of Appeal differed from those of both the FTT and the UT.
Patten LJ (with whom Black and Sales LJJ agreed) explained that the test of whether an undertaking is part of a university is considerably more hard edged than earlier decisions had suggested.
It is necessary for the relevant undertaking to show that it is a part of the university in the sense of being a constituent part with all the rights and privileges for its students which that entails.
Inherent in this test is the need to demonstrate some legal relationship which establishes and confirms the status of the undertaking.
It matters not whether this relationship is embodied in a formal foundation or constitutional document or whether it is based upon some other binding agreement.
But it has to be one which in a real sense makes the undertaking a constituent part of the university.
It had not been established that SEL was a part of MU in a constitutional or structural sense and so the appeal fell to be dismissed.
Note 1(b) the correct approach
The starting point for a consideration of the proper interpretation of Note 1(b) to Schedule 9, Group 6, Item 1 of the VAT Act must be articles 131 to 133 of the Principal VAT Directive.
These make clear that member states must exempt transactions involving the provision of, among other things, university education by bodies governed by public law having such education as their aim.
Member states must also exempt transactions by other organisations which they have recognised as having similar objects to those governed by public law and which also have education as their aim.
In accordance with well established principles, the terms used in articles 131 to 133 to specify exemptions from VAT must be construed strictly.
Nevertheless, they must also be construed in a manner which is consistent with the objectives which underpin them and not in such a way as to deprive them of their intended effects.
The general objective of the exemptions in articles 133 to 135 is, I think, readily apparent and, so far as university education is concerned, it is to ensure that access to the higher educational services this necessarily involves is not hindered by the increased costs that would result if those services were subject to VAT.
This was explained by the CJEU in Commission of the European Communities v Federal Republic of Germany (Case C 287/00) [2002] ECR I 5811; [2002] STC 982, a decision which concerned article 13A(1)(i) of the Sixth Directive, which, as we have seen, is an exemption drawn in very similar terms to those of article 132(1)(i) of the Principal VAT Directive.
The court said this about the purpose of the Article in considering the concept of services which are closely related to university education, and whether research activities fell within its scope: 47.
Nevertheless, that concept does not require an especially strict interpretation since the exemption of the supply of services closely related to university education is designed to ensure that access to the benefits of such education is not hindered by the increased costs of providing it that would follow if it, or the supply of services and of goods closely related to it, were subject to VAT (see, by analogy, in relation to article 13(A)(1)(b) of the Sixth Directive, Commission v France (Case C 76/99)