1(b) of Schedule 9, Group 6, Item 1 of the VAT Act and the definition of a university in Note (3) of Schedule 5, Group 6, Item 1 of the FA 1972 but he could see nothing in these differences or in the Sixth Directive to justify giving what he thought was essentially the same language a much wider meaning.
He was of the view that there was nothing in the EU legislation which compelled member states to cast the scope of the exemption more widely than, in the case of the United Kingdom, it had previously chosen to do.
He thought the focus of Note 1(b), and that of Note (3) before it, was on identifying the constituent parts of the university.
The phrase of a university was common to both statutes and in his opinion this was determinative of the position.
Patten LJ also considered the decisions in SFM, University of Leicester Students Union and FBT.
Having done so, he was still of the view that it was necessary for SEL to establish what he understood Peter Gibson LJ to have described in University of Leicester Students Union, namely that it was a part of the university in the sense of being a constituent part with all the rights and privileges for its students and other members which that entailed.
In my judgment Patten LJ has fallen into error in the following important respects.
First, in focusing on the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge, all of which form a part of the structure of their respective universities, he has failed to take into account the variety of reasonable and foreseeable arrangements between a university and a college.
Secondly, the 1988 Act is in my view of no real assistance in construing the provisions of Schedule 9, Group 6 of the VAT Act.
The 1988 Act does not purport to implement or give effect to any EU legislation, let alone the Sixth Directive or the Principal VAT Directive.
Further and as Patten LJ himself recognised, the purposes of the 1988 Act and the orders made under it are very different from those of the VAT Act.
The 1988 Act is concerned with the grant of awards.
The relevant provisions of the VAT Act, on the other hand, are concerned with the provision of education.
Thirdly, Patten LJ has in my view failed properly to take into account the difference between the provisions of the First and Second Directives, on the one hand, and those of the Sixth Directive and the Principal VAT Directive, on the other, namely the scope and nature of the discretion they respectively confer on member states to exempt supplies of education from VAT.
The provisions of the VAT Act are not the same as those of the FA 1972 and, most importantly, must be interpreted in the light of the wording and purpose of the Sixth Directive and now the VAT Directive, the breadth of the discretion conferred on member states by those Directives, and the need for Parliament, in exercising that discretion, to apply the relevant principles of EU law, including the principle of equal treatment.
Finally, and for the reasons I have given, the judgment of Peter Gibson LJ in University of Leicester Students Union does not provide any sound support for the conclusion Patten LJ reached.
I have therefore come to the conclusion that the Court of Appeal has fallen into error.
The correct approach is to ascertain the nature and purpose of the educational activities of the college in issue, and whether those activities are so integrated with those of its university that it may properly be said to have the same objects as that university.
That exercise may conveniently be carried out in the manner I have described at paras 47 to 56 above.
The application of the correct approach
In my judgment the analysis of the evidence carried out by the FTT was careful and comprehensive.
It found, among other things, that SEL