 periods of delay resulting from earlier failures where proceedings were issued within 12 months of the latest failure? Might the answer to that question depend upon whether there was a finding that all of the failures of disclosure were part of a policy or practice to cause delay?
The court did not answer these questions, but it observed that in the light of these issues, and the very long delays occurring in legacy cases, those who wished to avoid being captured by the primary limitation period under section 7(5)(a) might well feel obliged to issue proceedings separately in relation to each and every incident of delay.
That might involve separate proceedings against different public authorities allegedly contributing to periods of delay which might or might not overlap.
If each case had to be pursued within one year of the end of each particular element of delay, that would introduce a proliferation of litigation in respect of which periods of delay justified an award of damages against which public authorities.
Practicality and good case management pointed towards ensuring that all of those claims against each public authority should be heard at the same time.
In the present case a fresh inquest had been ordered (ie the inquest which began on 22 February 2016 and had already been completed when the substituted judgment was delivered).
If it did not take place within a reasonable time, that would constitute a fresh breach of the Convention for which a remedy, including damages, might be available.
It was when the inquest was completed that it would be possible to examine all the circumstances surrounding any claim for delay, and the court would then be in a position to determine whether adequate redress required an award of damages and, if so, against which public authority in which amount.
The court stated at para 21: We consider, therefore, that in legacy cases the issue of damages against any public authority for breach of the adjectival obligation in article 2 ECHR ought to be dealt with once the inquest has finally been determined.
Each public authority against whom an award is sought should be joined.
In order to achieve this it may be necessary to rely upon section 7(5)(b) of the 1998 Act.
The principle that the court should be aware of all the circumstances and the prevention of even further litigation in legacy cases are compelling arguments in favour of it being equitable in the circumstances to extend time if required.
Where the proceedings have been issued within 12 months of the conclusion of the inquest, time should be extended.
This appears on its face to constitute general guidance for all legacy cases in which damages are sought.
The court made it clear at para 22 that it expected there to be very few, if any, exceptions to this approach: We find it difficult to envisage any circumstances in which there should be an exception to the approach set out in the preceding paragraph in such cases.
The court concluded at para 23: For the reasons given we consider that the claim for damages for delay should be assessed after the completion of the inquest but should be made within one year of the completion.
Since we have ordered a fresh inquest in this case that period has not yet commenced.
We will hear the parties on whether the appeal on the award of damages should be adjourned until after the inquest or allowed without adjudication on the merits to enable the issue of a fresh claim.
The first sentence in this passage again appears to constitute general guidance for legacy cases (since damages had already been assessed in the present case).
So far as the present case was concerned, the alternatives set out in the third sentence were either to adjourn further consideration of the appeal until after the inquest had been completed, or to allow the appeal without a decision on the merits, so that the proceedings were brought to an end and a further claim could be brought after the inquest.
In the event