, the resultant order stayed the proceedings until the conclusion of the inquest, as explained earlier.
Separate orders were made on 10 June 2017 in respect of the appeal and the cross appeal.
In relation to the appeal, the court ordered: 1. that the claim for damages for breach of the article 2 procedural requirement that an inquest be conducted promptly should not be brought until the inquest has finally been determined. that where a claim for damages for breach of the article 2. 2 procedural requirement that an inquest be conducted promptly is brought within 12 months of the conclusion of the inquest, time should be extended under section 7(5)(b) of the 1998 Act [ie the Human Rights Act]. that the appeal be stayed until the conclusion of the 3. inquest proceedings.
In relation to the cross appeal, the court ordered: 1. that the issue of delay at ground 7 on the cross appeal be stayed until the conclusion of the inquest proceedings.
Paragraph 1 of the order in the appeal was consistent with the general guidance given in the judgment, and appeared to lay down a general rule that claims of the present kind should not be brought until an inquest has been concluded.
It has no direct bearing on the present proceedings, where the claim was brought as long ago as 2013.
Paragraph 2 addressed the implications of paragraph 1 in relation to the limitation period imposed by section 7(5).
Only paragraph 3, and the order in the cross appeal, directly concerned the present proceedings.
The decision of the Court of Appeal appears to have been understood as laying down a general rule that claims of the present kind could not be brought before the conclusion of an inquest, and that any claims which had been brought before that stage should be stayed until then.
The present appeal
The present appeal was brought in order to challenge the general guidance given by the Court of Appeal, reflected in paragraph 1 of the order made in the appeal.
The main issue in the appeal was agreed to be whether the Court of Appeal was correct to rule that a victim adversely impacted by delay in the conduct of an inquest could not bring a claim for damages prior to the conclusion of the inquest.
The appellant sought to set aside the judgment and order made by the Northern Ireland Court of Appeal whereby it decided that her claim for damages for breach of article 2 ECHR by reason of delay could only be brought after the conclusion of the inquest into her sons death.
In re McCords application for Judicial Review
After the hearing of the present appeal, the Court of Appeal handed down judgment in another legacy case where the applicant had applied for leave to issue judicial review proceedings in which he sought a declaration that the non disclosure of certain documents by the PSNI had caused delay in the holding of an inquest, in violation of his rights under article 2: In re McCords application for Judicial Review, unreported, 18 January 2019.
The proceedings had been stayed by the High Court.
In the course of its judgment, the Court of Appeal considered the judgment under appeal in the present proceedings (in its original version).
It said at paras 21 22, in relation to para 27 of its original judgment in the present case (identical to para 22 of the revised version, cited at para 15 above): 21.
We accept that this passage created the impression that in every legacy case any application to pursue a remedy by way of damages for delay could only be dealt with at the end of the inquest.
Indeed it is clear that that was the common understanding of the parties before the learned trial judge as a result of which the applicant decided to abandon the determination of his claim for damages in the proceedings and rely