 of the deceased, and may suffer anguish as decades pass without any adequate inquiry into the circumstances of the death, particularly where there are allegations of state involvement in the death (as in the present case), and of collusion and cover up.
The imposition of delay in the determination of their claim for damages may cause additional distress.
There may be other factors in individual cases which make the expeditious determination of the claim particularly important.
The present case, for example, illustrates the importance of expedition where proceedings are brought by claimants who are elderly or infirm.
In striking an appropriate balance between the different interests at stake, the length of any stay will be of considerable importance.
There is no doubt that there may be cases in which it is proportionate to impose a stay on a claim for damages in a legacy case, weighing the relevant factors for and against it.
There is equally no doubt that there may be cases in which, weighing those factors, a stay is not proportionate.
Since the relevant factors can differ in nature and weight from one case to another, it follows that courts should carry out the necessary balancing exercise in the individual case.
A virtually automatic rule requiring all such claims to be stayed until after the inquest, regardless of their individual circumstances, would not comply with that requirement, and in addition, as previously explained, would result in breaches of the reasonable time requirement of article 6.
The present case
The guidance which the Court of Appeal was understood to have given in paras 21 23 of its judgment in the present case was not consistent with the foregoing principles.
On its face, it involved no assessment of proportionality or consideration of individual circumstances.
It was also liable to render the article 2 procedural right ineffective, and to result in breaches of the reasonable time guarantee.
The clarification provided in the case of McCord has, however, considerably narrowed the apparent scope of that guidance, so as to confine it to cases where the only outstanding issue is damages and where an inquest can be expected to begin within the near future, if not already under way.
The court also indicated that the appropriateness of the stay should be kept under review, and that it should be lifted if the claim for damages will not otherwise be determined within a reasonable time.
Guidance to that effect is generally consistent with the principles discussed above, although it remains necessary to allow for the possibility of exceptions in individual cases.
The foregoing discussion has concerned the general guidance given by the Court of Appeal in the present case, and the reconsideration of that guidance in the case of McCord.
So far as the present proceedings are concerned, the decision which is challenged was to stay the claim for damages until the inquest had been concluded.
It has not been argued that the effect of that decision was to render the claimants article 2 right theoretical or illusory, or that there was a breach of the reasonable time requirement imposed by article 6.
On the other hand, it does not appear from the judgment of the Court of Appeal that it carried out any assessment of the proportionality of the stay which it ordered.
It is uncertain whether the court would have ordered the stay if such an assessment had been conducted, particularly if Mr Jordans ill health had been drawn to its attention.
Conclusion
It is impossible not to feel considerable sympathy for the serious practical difficulties which the courts in Northern Ireland face in dealing with legacy cases, and which prompted the guidance which was given in the present case and clarified in the case of McCord.
As has been explained, the guidance as originally given was defective on its face, and the appellant was entirely justified in bringing this appeal in order to challenge it.
The Court of Appeal has, however, recognised that the terms in which it expressed itself have caused difficulty, and it has resolved the problem in its