 violation of their Convention rights.
Although the court cannot prevent proceedings from being brought by persons who claim that their Convention rights have been violated, it can exercise powers of case management in relation to those proceedings.
Such powers can include ordering a stay of proceedings in appropriate circumstances.
In that regard, however, three important aspects of Convention rights must be borne in mind.
1. Rights that are practical and effective
First, the European Court has emphasised many times that Convention rights must be applied in a way which renders them practical and effective, not theoretical and illusory: see, for example, Airey v Ireland (1979) 2 EHRR 305, para 24.
The effectiveness of the right under article 2 to have an investigation into a death begin promptly and proceed with reasonable expedition could be gravely weakened if there were a general practice of staying proceedings seeking to secure the prompt holding of an inquest, typically by obtaining a mandatory order or a declaration.
Although compensation might be payable at a later stage, the primary object of the Convention, and of the Human Rights Act, is to secure compliance with the Convention so far as possible, rather than to tolerate violations so long as compensation is eventually paid.
On the other hand, a practice of staying the assessment of damages (as distinct from the consideration of remedies designed to end the delay) until the entirety of the delay can be considered is less likely to undermine the effectiveness of the right, since that is less likely to depend on the point in time at which damages are assessed and awarded.
Nevertheless, it remains necessary to consider whether that might be the consequence of a stay in the individual case before the court.
2. Determination within a reasonable time
Secondly, since the right conferred by section 7(1)(a) of the Human Rights Act is a civil right within the meaning of article 6 of the Convention, a claimant is entitled under that article to have his claim determined within a reasonable time.
That right under article 6 is distinct from the article 2 right on which the proceedings are based.
A breach of the article 6 right is itself actionable under section 7(1)(a).
The staying of proceedings will be unlawful if it results in a breach of the reasonable time guarantee in article 6.
That would be a real possibility in some cases, if stays until after the completion of an inquest were ordered as a general rule.
In the McCord case, the Court of Appeal observed that it was impossible to estimate how many years it might take before the inquest might proceed.
In the proceedings brought by Hugh Jordan successfully challenging the verdict of the second inquest, the Lord Chief Justice remarked that if the existing legacy inquests are to be brought to a conclusion under the present system someone could easily be hearing The proportionality of a restriction on access to the courts some of these cases in 2040: [2014] NICA 76, para 122.
The state of affairs described in Sir Paul Girvans recent judgment In re Hughes application for Judicial Review is consistent with that assessment.
Plainly, a stay of that duration, or anything like it, would constitute a breach of article 6. 3.
Thirdly, since a stay of proceedings prevents a claim from being pursued so long as it remains in place, it engages another aspect of article 6 of the Convention, namely the guarantee of an effective right of access to a court: see, for example, Woodhouse v Consignia plc [2002] EWCA Civ 275; [2002] 1 WLR 2558.
It must therefore pursue a legitimate aim, and there must be a reasonable relationship of proportionality between the means employed and the aim sought to be achieved: see Tinnelly & Sons Ltd