 to the commencement of the proceedings, and there was no reason why the court should exercise its discretion to extend the period for bringing proceedings under section 7(5)(b).
Judgment was handed down on 22 September 2015: [2015] NICA 66.
That judgment was subsequently withdrawn and a revised judgment, also dated 22 September 2015, was issued on 12 May 2017.
The resultant orders, also dated 22 September 2015, were made on 10 June 2017.
The judgment and orders are discussed below.
The immediate result of the orders was a stay of proceedings.
A further inquest into Pearse Jordans death commenced on 22 February 2016 and a verdict was delivered on 9 November 2016.
That verdict was challenged in judicial review proceedings brought by Pearse Jordans mother, the present appellant, but without success: In re Jordans application for Judicial Review [2018] NICA 34.
She also took over the conduct of the present proceedings from her husband as his health had deteriorated so as to prevent him from taking part.
On 23 October 2017, following a hearing which it had convened of its own motion in the exercise of its case management functions, the Court of Appeal lifted the stay on the present proceedings.
It had been in place for a period of two years and one month.
Both the Chief Constables appeal and the claimants cross appeal were heard during 2018.
The cross appeal was dismissed: [2018] NICA 23.
The appeal has not yet been decided.
The delays in the investigation into Pearse Jordans death, and the repeated litigation which has characterised that process, are a common feature of what have come to be known as legacy cases: that is to say, cases concerning deaths occurring in Northern Ireland during the Troubles.
In his recent judgment In re Hughes application for Judicial Review [2018] NIQB 30, Sir Paul Girvan found that there was systemic delay in these cases, arising from a lack of resources to fund inquests of the length, complexity and contentiousness involved.
There were at that point 54 inquests pending in relation to 94 deaths.
Only one inquest was heard during 2018.
In an effort to address this problem, reforms have been proposed by the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland which, it is hoped, will enable all the outstanding cases to be heard within five years.
The proposed reforms have not however been implemented, as the necessary funding has not been provided.
The judgment and order of the Court of Appeal
In its judgment the court considered how section 7(5) of the Human Rights Act applies to complaints of delay in relation to the holding of inquests.
Section 7(1)(a) provides that a person who claims that a public authority has acted in a way which is made unlawful by section 6(1) (ie has acted in a way which is incompatible with a Convention right) may bring proceedings against the authority under the Act.
Section 7(5) provides: (5) Proceedings under subsection (l)(a) must be brought before the end of the period of one year beginning with the date on (a) which the act complained of took place; or (b) considers equitable having regard circumstances such longer period as the court or tribunal the
to all
The court observed that it was apparent from the history of this case and other legacy cases that delay as a result of failures to disclose evidence had been a recurring problem.
Where there had been a series of failures of disclosure, was it necessary, the court asked, for the applicant to issue proceedings within one year of the end of a particular failure to disclose, or was the applicant entitled to include