The central issue in this appeal is whether the Court of Appeal in Northern Ireland was entitled to order that a claim for damages under section 8 of the Human Rights Act 1998, for breach of the requirement under article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights that an investigation into a death should begin promptly and proceed with reasonable expedition, should not be brought until an inquest has been concluded, or if already brought should be stayed until after that date.
The facts
The appellants son, Pearse Jordan, was shot and killed by a member of the Royal Ulster Constabulary on 25 November 1992.
In 1994 the appellants husband, Hugh Jordan, made an application to the European Court of Human Rights, complaining that the failure to carry out a prompt and effective investigation into his sons death was a violation of article 2.
An inquest commenced on 4 January 1995 but was adjourned shortly afterwards.
On 4 May 2001 the European Court of Human Rights upheld Mr Jordans complaint and awarded him 10,000 in respect of non pecuniary damage, together with costs and expenses: Jordan v United Kingdom (2003) 37 EHRR 2.
A fresh inquest into Pearse Jordans death commenced on 24 September 2012, and a verdict was delivered on 26 October 2012.
Hugh Jordan then brought proceedings for judicial review of the conduct of the inquest, which resulted in the verdict being quashed: In re Jordans application for Judicial Review [2014] NIQB 11.
A subsequent appeal against that decision was dismissed: [2014] NICA 76.
In 2013 Hugh Jordan brought the present proceedings for judicial review, in which he sought declarations that the Coroner and the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) had been responsible for delay in the commencement of the inquest in violation of his rights under article 2, together with awards of damages under section 8 of the Human Rights Act in respect of the delay from 4 May 2001 until 24 September 2012.
Stephens J upheld the claim against the PSNI, finding that there had been a series of failures to disclose relevant information until compelled to do so, and also a delay in commencing a process of risk assessment relating to the anonymity of witnesses: [2014] NIQB 11, paras 350 359.
Following a further hearing in that case and five other similar cases, he made a declaration that the PSNI delayed progress of the Pearse Jordan inquest in breach of article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights and contrary to section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998, and awarded damages of 7,500: [2014] NIQB 71.
The Chief Constable of the PSNI appealed against the declaration and award of damages, contending that although the PSNI might have been responsible for part of the delay, they should not have orders made against them where other state authorities had also been responsible for the delay but were not party to the proceedings.
Hugh Jordan cross appealed against the dismissal of his claim against the Coroner.
The Department of Justice was joined as a respondent to the proceedings.
It is a matter of agreement before this court that, at the hearing of the appeal, the Court of Appeal raised a preliminary issue relating to the timing of the application for judicial review, and heard argument on that issue only.
The judgment itself states that the issue of timing was raised by counsel for the PSNI, who argued that the application was time barred under section 7(5) of the Human Rights Act, since there was no finding that delay in breach of article 2 had occurred within the period of 12 months immediately prior