 solely upon the claim for a declaration 22.
We consider, however, that this passage of the judgment ought to be interpreted in a rather more qualified manner.
First, it has to be borne in mind that the court, having given the judgment in September 2015, decided of its own motion to relist the case for the determination of the damages claim in June 2017 having regard to the fact that the inquest had not yet concluded.
Secondly, it needs to be borne in mind that this was a case management decision and was not intended to set forth any rule of law about the entitlement to damages in legacy cases.
Thirdly, the case was concerned with circumstances in which there were active and ongoing inquest proceedings but where issues of delay in the course of those active proceedings arose.
It was such cases that were being discussed in this passage of the judgment and we consider that the interpretation of para 27 [ie para 22 of the revised version] should be confined to cases in which those circumstances are present.
The court observed at para 23 that the case before it was different: The inquest in this case has not taken place.
No Coroner has been allocated to hear it and no materials have been provided to the Coroners Service by the police.
It is impossible to estimate how many years it might take before the inquest might proceed In these circumstances the appeal was allowed.
In the light of this judgment, it appears that the Court of Appeal intends the guidance given in the present case to be confined to cases where the only outstanding issue is damages and where an inquest can be expected to begin within the near future, if not already under way.
The court also indicated in para 22 that the appropriateness of the stay should be kept under review, and that it should be lifted if the claim for damages will not otherwise be determined within a reasonable time.
Discussion
In considering the guidance given by the Court of Appeal in the present case, as clarified in the case of McCord, it must be borne in mind at the outset that, in cases of the present kind, it is the delay itself which constitutes a breach of the claimants Convention rights and gives rise to a right to bring proceedings under the Human Rights Act.
The breach does not crystallise only after the inquest has been concluded: the claimant is entitled to bring proceedings as soon as the delay reaches the requisite threshold under article 2.
Claims arising from such delay are brought under section 7(1)(a) of the Human Rights Act.
That provision confers a statutory right on any person who claims that a public authority has acted in a way which is incompatible with a Convention right to bring proceedings against the authority, provided that he or she qualifies as a victim of the unlawful act and brings the proceedings within the time limits set by section 7(5).
The court then has the power to grant appropriate relief under section 8.
This may take the form of relief designed to end the delay, such as a mandatory order or declaration, or relief designed to compensate for the consequences of delay, in the form of an award of damages.
In the present proceedings, both a declaration and damages were sought and awarded.
The same remedies were also sought in the McCord case, although the claim for damages was abandoned in light of the guidance given in the present case.
No court can take away the right conferred by section 7(1)(a), whether in the exercise of case management powers or otherwise.
Leaving aside the courts power to control vexatious litigants and abuses of process, which are not here in issue, there can be no question of anyone being prevented from bringing proceedings at a time of their choosing (subject to the limitation provision in section 7(5)) in respect of a claimed