 v United Kingdom (1998) 27 EHRR 249, para 72.
It follows that even in a case where a stay would not render the article 2 right ineffective or breach the reasonable time guarantee in article 6, it is nevertheless necessary to consider whether it would be a proportionate restriction of the right of access to a court.
As will be explained, that exercise requires consideration of the circumstances of the individual case before the court.
So far as legitimate aims are concerned, the Court of Appeal mentioned two objectives: that a proliferation of litigation should be avoided, and that the court should be aware of all relevant circumstances when determining claims.
Both of those aims are clearly legitimate.
The courts concern about a potential proliferation of litigation was based, as it explained, on uncertainty in the legal profession about the answers to certain questions affecting the limitation of claims: whether a separate violation of the article 2 right to a prompt investigation, for which a separate claim arises, occurs on every occasion when a public authority is responsible for some measure of unjustified delay; and if so, whether such claims become time barred under section 7(5)(a), subject to the courts exercise of its discretion under section 7(5)(b), 12 months after each claim arises.
How those questions should be answered has seemingly yet to be considered.
If a suitable case were brought before the court for determination, that uncertainty could be resolved one way or the other.
Until that occurs, however, the courts concern that uncertainty may result in a proliferation of litigation is reasonable and constitutes an important consideration on one side of the scales.
In relation to the other legitimate aim, namely that the court should be aware of all relevant circumstances, the point made by the Court of Appeal was that it is only after an inquest has been completed that it is possible to determine whether adequate redress for delay requires an award of damages, and if so against which public authority and in which amount.
Whether that is so depends on how damages are assessed.
Hitherto, assessment has not depended on factors which can only be considered after an inquest.
The possibility of assessing damages on a broadly conventional basis prior to the conclusion of an inquest is demonstrated by several judgments of the European Court in cases emanating from Northern Ireland, including its judgment in the Jordan case.
That is not to say, however, that there may not be good practical reasons for staying the proceedings, where the question arises of whether it is appropriate to award damages, and if so in what amount.
Particularly in a situation where the court may have to decide claims against different public bodies in respect of the same or different periods of delay, deferring consideration of these issues until after the conclusion of an inquest may enable the court to consider all relevant periods of delay, and responsibility for them, at one and the same time.
It is therefore another means of reducing the risk of an undue burden being placed on the courts by a proliferation of claims for damages (and potentially for contribution, depending on how the concept of joint and several liability applies in this context: another question which seemingly has yet to be considered).
As indicated earlier, this is a relevant and significant factor to be weighed in the balance.
Whether a stay is proportionate depends on an assessment of the weight of the competing interests at stake in the circumstances of the particular case.
The cogency of the arguments in favour of a stay will depend on the degree of risk that the proceedings may otherwise result in a proliferation of litigation, if that is the legitimate aim pursued.
On the other side of the scales, the importance to the claimant of obtaining monetary redress for the violation of his or her Convention rights without avoidable delay has to be considered.
In most cases the claimant is likely to be the widow, parent or child