 that one should adopt the starting point formulated by Mr Stark. (para 25)
With regard to the alleged failure to have regard to paragraph 17.40, he noted (para 34) the comment of Kitchin LJ in Balog v Birmingham City Council [2014] HLR 14, para 49 that review officers are not obliged to identify each and every paragraph of the guidance which bears upon the decision they have to make.
Referring to the comparison with income support he said: It is true that the review decision did not address that point in terms.
It did, however, take into account the payment of income support, and on the face of it the appellants residual income after the cost of her accommodation (ie after deduction of the shortfall in her rent) was well in excess of the level of her income support.
At the hearing of the appeal Mr Stark did not suggest otherwise He did submit that the child tax credits should also be taken into account in this part of the exercise, but that is not what paragraph 17.40 says (para 36)
He also referred to a new point which Mr Stark had sought to introduce in post hearing written submissions related to changes in the relative treatment of income support and child tax credit.
So far as he understood it, this seemed to him to depend on a strained and implausible construction of the guidance itself, but in any event he accepted the authoritys submission that it was too late to raise it (para 37).
The submissions in this court
For the appellant, Mr Stark, with the support of Mr Westgate QC for the interveners, asks the court to look at the issues in this case against a background in which shortfalls between contractual rent and maximum levels of housing benefit have become common for a number of reasons, in both the private and social rented sectors, because of developments in social security policy.
These include the local housing allowance size criteria and the social sector size criteria (the spare room subsidy / bedroom tax rules); contractual rent exceeding local broad rent levels for local housing allowance, originally set at the 50th centile of local reference rents but reduced to the 30th centile in 2011; the freezing of local reference rent rates from 2012 to 2013, and 2016 to 2020; and the benefit cap.
He refers to evidence of the increasing incidence of homelessness linked to inability to afford rents.
For example, the National Audit Office report, Homelessness (HC 308, 2017) identified a threefold increase since 2010 2011 in the number of applicants as a result of the ending of an assured shorthold tenancy.
The report observed: 1.16.
In all cases front line staff said that the key reason why people were presenting as homeless was the end of tenancies in the private rented sector.
They said that this was due to increases in rents in the private sector, and a decline in peoples ability to pay these rents.
This decline in ability to pay was said to be partly due to welfare reforms.
Against this background, although he makes a number of related points, Mr Starks underlying submission is that it was wrong in principle for the council to treat Ms Samuels non housing benefit as containing a surplus which could be treated as available to make up shortfalls in housing benefits.
More specifically he submits (in the words of his written case): The respondent failed to correctly apply the 1996 Order.
Rather than add all income and subtract all reasonable expenditure, it treated the appellants housing benefit as hypothecated for rent, then asked whether the gap between
housing benefit and rent could be bridged from other income
Linked to this was a submission (supported by the interveners) that the council had failed to pay regard