 that her last settled accommodation should be treated as her ex partners address, where she went for a period after leaving 18 Dagger Lane.
The officer then turned to the treatment of affordability, which was dealt with relatively briefly.
He referred to the shortfall in respect of monthly rent (151.49), and the monthly income, apart from housing benefit, of 1,349.33 (see above).
He noted that on the expenditure figures originally submitted there would have been a significant amount of disposable income from which to fund your shortfall.
Referring to the amended figures, he commented: It is now asserted that contrary to the provided figure of 150 for housekeeping, the actual figure was 750 per month, or 173 per week.
This figure seems to me to be excessive for a family of your size, given that this is purported to only account for food and household items, with utilities and travel expenses accounted for elsewhere.
I accept that a figure of 150 per month for food and household bills for a family of your size is equally likely to be inaccurate, but I consider that it is a matter of normal household budgeting that you would manage your household finances in such a way to ensure that you were able to meet your rental obligation.
I cannot accept that there was not sufficient flexibility in your overall household income of in excess of 311 per week to meet a weekly shortfall in rent of 34. [The figures of household income (311) and shortfall in rent (34) given in the letter appear to be the (rounded) weekly equivalents of the monthly figures given earlier in the letter (1,349.33 and 151.49 respectively).] The officer noted that, in spite of some learning difficulties, she had confirmed her ability to pay her bills on time and manage her finances.
It was concluded accordingly that the accommodation at 18 Dagger Lane was affordable for her.
The appeal
In the County Court counsel for Ms Samuels raised a number of grounds of appeal, including the alleged failure of the reviewing officer to have regard to paragraph 17.40 of the Code of Guidance.
The Judge rejected this submission (para 54).
He referred to Balog v Birmingham City Council [2013] EWCA Civ 1582; [2014] HLR 14, in which a similar submission had been rejected by the Court of Appeal.
He accepted counsels submission for the authority that the Code was a recommendation; the Code had been referred to in the letter, and it was reasonable to assume that the decision was made having considered its provisions.
He added that if paragraph 17.40 was not fully considered, it was an error which does not invalidate the decision.
The reasons did not need to set out every aspect of the decision making process.
The appeal was dismissed by the Court of Appeal.
Giving the sole judgment, Richards LJ noted the submission by Mr Stark for Ms Samuels that when an applicant is reliant entirely on benefits, regard should be had to the fact that such benefits are set at subsistence level and are not designed to give a level of income that allows flexibility to spend outside maintaining a very basic standard of living, and that income support, child tax credits and child benefit are not intended to cover housing costs; it is the purpose of housing benefit to cover those costs (para 24).
He did not accept that there was such a necessary starting point: The 1996 Order and the guidance make clear that account should be taken of all forms of income (including social security benefits of all kinds) and of relevant expenses (including rent and other reasonable living expenses).
This suggests that a judgment has to be made on the basis of income and relevant expenses as a whole.
It does not suggest that benefits income is to have any special status or treatment in that exercise, let alone