The appellant, Ms Samuels, was an assured shorthold tenant of 18 Dagger Lane, West Bromwich, Birmingham, where she lived with four children.
In July 2011, having fallen into rent arrears, she was given notice to leave.
She later applied to the respondent council as homeless under Part VII of the Housing Act 1996.
But it was decided that she was intentionally homeless, on the ground that the accommodation at Dagger Lane was affordable and reasonable for her to continue to occupy, and that its loss was the result of her deliberate act in failing to pay the rent.
That decision was ultimately confirmed on review by the council in a letter dated 11 December 2013.
The central issue in this appeal is whether the council adopted the correct approach in determining that the accommodation was affordable for those purposes.
Ms Samuelss appeal to the County Court against the councils decision was dismissed by H H Judge Worster on 10 June 2014, and her further appeal was dismissed by the Court of Appeal (Richards, Floyd, and Sales LJJ) [2016] PTSR 558 on 27 October 2015.
She appeals to this court with permission granted by the court on 19 February 2018. (The notice of appeal recorded that the very substantial delay in bringing the case to this court was caused by funding problems, related to the refusal of legal aid, and the need to proceed by way of conditional fee agreement.
Legal Aid was reinstated after permission to appeal had been granted by this court.
We were told that in the meantime she and her family have been living in temporary accommodation provided by the council.)
The statutory framework
The relevant statutory provisions are in Part VII of the 1996 Act.
The authority becomes under a full duty to secure accommodation to a person found homeless, if they find certain conditions satisfied, one of which is that they are not satisfied that she became homeless intentionally (section 193(1)).
That in turn depends on whether she deliberately did or failed to do anything in consequence of which she ceased to occupy accommodation which was available for her occupation and which it would have been reasonable for [her] to continue to occupy (section 191(1)).
The initial decision is made under section 184 of the 1996 Act; section 202 confers a right to request a review by the authority itself; section 204 confers a right of appeal to the County Court on a point of law.
Section 177(3) enables the Secretary of State by order to specify matters to be taken into account or disregarded in determining the question under section 191(1).
The Homelessness (Suitability of Accommodation) Order 1996 (SI 1996/3204) (the 1996 Order), made in the exercise of that power, provided: 2.
Matters to be taken into account In determining whether it would be, or would have been, reasonable for a person to continue to occupy accommodation there shall be taken into account whether or not the accommodation is affordable for that person and, in particular, the following matters the financial resources available to that person, (a) including, but not limited to, salary, fees and other remuneration; social security benefits; (i) (ii) the costs in respect of the accommodation, (b) including, but not limited to, (i) payments of, or by way of, rent; (d) that persons other reasonable living expenses.
Section 182(1) requires the authority to have regard to guidance given by the Secretary of State.
The relevant guidance at the time was the Homelessness Code of Guidance for Local Authorities (the Code).
It was issued in 2006, replacing earlier versions dated 1999 and 2002