 to paragraph 17.40, as correctly interpreted.
It was submitted that the reference to a residual income less than the level of income support must be taken as not limited to income support in the strict sense, but as including amounts available in respect of the children, by way of child benefit or child tax credit.
This, he says, is necessary to give effect to the obvious policy of the guidance, which is apparent also from the reference to the amount varying according to the composition of the applicants household.
It would make no sense to recommend the use of her income support on its own, as a recommended guide to the reasonable family expenditure which must take account of the needs of the children.
This interpretation is also necessary, it is said, to avoid arbitrary differences between different claimants.
In this respect paragraph 17.40 must be understood against the background of changes in the treatment of benefits for claimants with children such as Ms Samuels.
These changes occurred since the Code was first issued in 1999, and re issued in 2002, with paragraph 17.40 in substantially the same form. (The only change from 2002 was the omission of the word significantly before the words less than the level of income support).
The changes are described in detail in the evidence of Ms Garnham, Chief Executive of CPAG.
I can conveniently take the summary from Mr Westgate QCs submission for the interveners: Prior to April 2004, income support recipients with children would have received family premiums and dependent child additions as part of their claim (old style support).
After April 2004, new income support recipients with children would no longer receive these additional payments in respect of children as part of their income support award but would instead have received Child Tax Credit instead (new style support).
It was stated Government policy that there should be an equivalence between old style income support rates for children and child tax credit rates.
The shift was not intended to disadvantage families who receive new style support, ie income support for the parent and child tax credit for each of the children.
This change did not affect those who had been continuously receiving income support.
According to the official statistics cited by Mr Stark, in 2006 when the Code was issued, the majority of claimants were still receiving income support including amounts for children.
For that group, it would have been clear that the full amount of income support, including the amounts for children, would be taken into account.
Although the proportion of claimants on the old arrangements had reduced to 1 in 20 by 2011, the wording of paragraph 17.40 remained the same.
But it cannot have been intended that the advice in the paragraph should apply in a different way to the two groups, simply because of a change in the way their benefits were presented.
Indeed to do so would be both irrational and discriminatory (in terms of articles 8 and 14 of the Human Rights Convention).
More generally, Mr Stark submits that the benefits are intended as no more than the officially prescribed subsistence level (see Humphreys v Revenue and Customs Comrs [2012] UKSC 18; [2012] 1 WLR 1545, para 3 per Lady Hale).
They are designed to cover necessary living expenses of the family.
They cannot properly be treated as notionally available to make up a shortfall between housing benefit and rent.
Thus in Mathieson v Secretary of State for Work and Pensions [2015] UKSC 47; [2015] 1 WLR 3250, para 15 (which concerned the cost occasioned by the prolonged stay in hospital of a disabled child, in a case where the family were receiving income support with child benefits and child tax credit), Lord Wilson observed that income support brought the familys