 than the level of income support (para 6 above).
Even if that recommendation in respect of income support is not interpreted as extending to benefits for children, the lack of a specific reference does not make the level of those benefits irrelevant.
As the authorities referred to by Mr Stark (para 26 above) show, benefit levels are not generally designed to provide a surplus above subsistence needs for the family.
If comparison with the relevant benefit levels is material to the assessment of the applicant, it is difficult to see why it should be any less material in assessing what is reasonable by way of living expenses in relation to other members of the household.
Relevant also is the duty under the Children Act to promote and safeguard the welfare of children.
The guidance makes clear, as one would expect, that amounts will vary according to the circumstances and composition of the applicants household.
Further, it is to be noted that, immediately after the reference to the household, there is a reference to a current tariff in respect of such benefits (plural), which suggests that the tariff may be looked at in respect of benefits other than income support, and is at least a good starting point for assessing reasonable living expenses.
That was not how the review officer dealt with Ms Samuels case.
He asked whether there was sufficient flexibility to enable her to cope with the shortfall of 151.49 between her rent and her housing benefit.
However, the question was not whether, faced with that shortfall, she could somehow manage her finances to bridge the gap; but what were her reasonable living expenses (other than rent), that being determined having regard to both her needs and those of the children, including the promotion of their welfare.
The amount shown in the schedule provided by her solicitors (1,234.99) was well within the amount regarded as appropriate by way of welfare benefits (1,349.33).
In the absence of any other source of objective guidance on this issue, it is difficult to see by what standard that level of expenses could be regarded as other than reasonable.
For these reasons in my view the appeal should be allowed and the review decision must be quashed.
Mr Stark has not in his submissions invited us to give any further relief at this stage.
I would however add that, in the light of the law as I have endeavoured to explain it, and on the information available to us, I find it hard to see on what basis the finding of intentional homelessness could be properly upheld.
I therefore express the hope that, five years on, the process can be short circuited, and the council will on reconsideration be able to accept full responsibility under Part VII for Ms Samuels and her family.
Postscript more recent developments
For completeness, since this judgment may be relevant in future cases, I note that in the time since the councils decision there have been significant changes to the law and policy in this area.
The Welfare Reform Act 2012 effected a radical overhaul of the benefits system, with the introduction of Universal Credit.
When fully in force it will replace the existing system of means tested benefits and tax credits with a single payment.
Awards under the new scheme comprise a standard allowance, with additional amounts for children, housing and other particular needs.
Another significant change in 2017 was the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017, which among other things was designed to involve authorities at an earlier stage in preventing homelessness.
In connection with the new legislation the government undertook a review of the Homelessness Code of Guidance, for which purpose it consulted on a revised draft published in October 2017.
Under affordability, paragraph 17.40 was replaced by the following much shorter version: 17.45 Housing authorities will need to consider whether the applicant can afford the housing costs without being deprived of basic essentials such as food, clothing,