 economy up to, but not beyond, subsistence level; and that the Secretary of State had conceded that there would have been no surplus available to meet such extra expenditure as the family might incur as a result of [their child being admitted to hospital].
He relies also on what was said by Henderson J in Burnip v Birmingham City Council [2012] EWCA Civ 629; [2013] PTSR 117, para 45: it is necessary to draw a clear distinction between the benefits which Mr Burnip was entitled to claim for his subsistence, and those which he was entitled to claim in respect of his housing needs.
It would therefore be wrong in principle, in my judgment, to regard Mr Burnips subsistence benefits as being notionally available to him to go towards meeting the shortfall between his housing related benefits and the rent he had to pay.
Although these statements were made specifically with reference to income support, it cannot have been intended that benefits related to children would be treated less favourably.
Further, to do so would be inconsistent with the authoritys duty to have regard to the need to safeguard and promote the welfare of children (Children Act 2004 section 11(2); and see Nzolameso v Westminster City Council (Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government intervening) [2015] UKSC 22; [2015] PTSR 549, paras 22 30).
In support of these submissions Mr Westgate refers to more recent statements in the government White Paper Universal Credit: welfare that works (DWP, November 2010 CM 7957).
He refers to chapter 2 (Universal Credit: a new approach to welfare) which states: The personal amount is the basic building block of Universal Credit as it is in existing benefits.
The purpose of the personal amount is to provide for basic living costs.
It will broadly reflect the current structure of personal allowances in Income Support, Jobseekers Allowance and the assessment phase of Employment and Support Allowance, with single people and couples getting different rates. (para 19) The Government is committed to providing the financial support less well off families need to cover childrens living costs.
We will therefore include fixed amounts within Universal Credit to provide for these costs.
The amounts will be based on those currently provided through Child Tax Credit.
They will be additional to Child Benefit. (para 38, emphasis added) Thus says Mr Westgate the personal allowance provides for no more than basic living costs while the amounts for children provide the support which the families need to cover (their) living costs.
Although those passages are related directly to Universal Credit, the passages make clear that the policy approach as respects the purpose, and the level of, benefits has not changed from the previous system.
Finally, Mr Westgate relies on the evidence of Polly Neate, Chief Executive of Shelter, as to the lack of any generally accepted guidance for authorities to assess the reasonableness of living expenses under the Suitability Order.
Shelters research shows a wide variety of practice among housing authorities, and the absence of any transparent or evidence based guidance for that purpose.
According to her evidence, 60% of authorities told Shelter that they have no internal guidance to assist them; only 17 of the 246 authorities who responded to Shelters Freedom of Information Act requests provided any training to housing decision makers on affordability assessment; and 43 of the 105 authorities who had some form of guidance or policy relied on one of three published guides on expenditure: (i) the Standard Financial Statement (SFS); (ii) the Common Financial Statement (CFS); or (iii) the Association of Housing Advice Services (AHAS) guideline figures.
According to Ms Neate, none of these is designed for assessing affordability under the Housing Act, and they