.
Paragraph 17.39 of the Code set out article 2 of the 1996 Order, with additional italicised comments.
It stated inter alia that account must be taken of: the financial resources available to him or her (ie all (a) forms of income), including, but not limited to: (i) salary, fees and other remuneration (from such sources as investments, grants, pensions, tax credits etc); social security benefits (such as housing benefit, (ii) income support, income based Jobseekers Allowances or Council Tax benefit etc) On the expenses side, the reference to rent was expanded: payments of, or by way of, rent (including rent default/property damage deposits).
There were no italicised additions to the reference to that persons other reasonable living expenses.
Paragraph 17.40 read: In considering an applicants residual income after meeting the costs of the accommodation, the Secretary of State recommends that housing authorities regard accommodation as not being affordable if the applicant would be left with a residual income which would be less than the level of income support or income based jobseekers allowance that is applicable in respect of the applicant, or would be applicable if he or she was entitled to claim such benefit.
This amount will vary from case to case, according to the circumstances and composition of the applicants household.
A current tariff of applicable amounts in respect of such benefits should be available within the authoritys housing benefit section.
Housing authorities will need to consider whether the applicant can afford the housing costs without being deprived of basic essentials such as food, clothing, heating, transport and other essentials (Emphasis added)
As will be seen, an important issue in the appeal is whether the reference to use of income support as a guide is to be treated as extending also to benefits in respect of children, in particular child tax credit.
It is helpful in this context to refer to Humphreys v Revenue and Customs Comrs [2012] UKSC 18; [2012] 1 WLR 1545, where Lady Hale explained the change.
Having noted that income support was a means tested benefit at the officially prescribed subsistence level, she described the introduction of child tax credit (CTC): Child tax credit and working tax credit were introduced by the Tax Credits Act 2002.
Child tax credit replaced the separate systems for taking account of childrens needs in the tax and benefits systems.
Previously, people in work (or otherwise liable to pay income tax) might claim the childrens tax credit to set off against their income.
This was administered by the tax authorities.
People out of work (or otherwise claiming means tested benefits) might claim additions to their income support or income based jobseekers allowance to meet their childrens needs.
This was administered by the benefits authorities.
Under the new system, a single tax credit is payable in respect of each child, irrespective of whether the claimant is in or out of work, and is administered by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
Child tax credit is like income support and jobseekers allowance, in that it is a benefit rather than a disregard and it is means tested, so that the higher ones income the less the benefit, until eventually it tapers out altogether. (paras 3 4)
Ms Samuels income and expenditure
For the purpose of comparing her income and expenditure at the relevant time, the evidence provided to the authority, and recorded by the county court judge (paras 15ff), presented a somewhat confusing picture, not assisted by the varying estimates presented by or on behalf of Ms Samuels.
On the income side, at the time that she left 18 Dagger Lane Ms Samuels was dependent entirely on social security benefits, amounting in total to a monthly income of 1,897.