 are subject to other concerns described in her evidence.
In response to the appellants submissions, Mr Manning for the council adopts the reasoning of the Court of Appeal.
The review officer correctly applied the approach of the 1996 Order, which required him to consider all sources of income, including social security benefits of all kinds.
There was nothing in the Order, or any other policy statement, to support Mr Starks central thesis that non housing welfare benefits cannot be used to meet housing costs, nor taken into account in assessing the affordability of rented accommodation.
Had it been intended that any category of non housing benefits should be excluded from consideration, it would have been easy so to provide.
In the absence of such provision, it is not for the authority to investigate the policy from time to time behind particular benefits.
The arguments based on the history of paragraph 17.40 of the Code, he submits, are not supported by the wording of the paragraph.
The specific reference to tax credits in paragraph 17.39 shows that the author had the changes well in mind.
The authoritys duty to have regard to the Code does not require, or entitle, it to search for interpretations which are not clear on a natural reading of the wording, nor to assume a meaning of income support based on a previous version of benefits law.
Statements in the authorities to the effect that income support was set at subsistence level were made in different statutory contexts.
In any event, child tax credit and child benefit are not subsistence benefits in that sense (see Humphreys supra para 22; R (PO) v Newham London Borough Council [2014] EWHC 2561 (Admin), paras 45 46).
Discussion
It is unfortunate that the submissions for the appellant, and in particular the arguments based on the interpretation of paragraph 17.40, seem to have been fully developed for the first time in this court.
We do not therefore have the full benefit of the experience in this field of the Court of Appeal.
Although Mr Westgates submissions and the supporting evidence for the interveners have provided some valuable background to the legal issues, we must bear in mind that this is an appeal relating to a particular decision, made more than five years ago, on the information then available to the council, not a general review of the law and policy in this field.
There is an attraction in the argument that references to income support in paragraph 17.40 should be understood in the sense in which that expression was apparently used at the time of the earlier versions of the Code.
It seems surprising, even nonsensical, that the level of income support should be maintained as a guide to affordability, but without regard to the changes which excluded from income support any allowance for the children of the family.
However, those issues are not in my view critical to the resolution of this appeal.
I would start from the terms of the 1996 Order itself.
On the one side it requires the authority to take into account all sources of income, including all social security benefits.
I agree with Mr Manning that there is nothing in the Order which requires or justifies the exclusion of non housing benefits of any kind.
On the other side it requires a comparison with the applicants reasonable living expenses.
Assessment of what is reasonable requires an objective assessment; it cannot depend simply on the subjective view of the case officer.
Furthermore, as Mr Stark submits, affordability has to be judged on the basis that the accommodation is to be available indefinitely (see R (Aweys) v Birmingham City Council [2009] WLR 1506; [2009] UKHL 36).
Guidance is provided by paragraph 17.40, where the Secretary of State recommends authorities to regard accommodation as unaffordable if the applicants residual income would be less