 the two surviving special categories of slander.
As I have pointed out above, special damage in this context means damage representing pecuniary loss, not including damage to reputation.
Section 1 is not concerned with special damage in that sense but with harm to the reputation of the claimant, ie with harm of the kind represented by general damage.
It simply supplements the common law by introducing a new condition that harm of that kind must be serious and in the case of trading bodies that it must result in serious financial loss.
The Court of Appeals analysis not only gives little or no effect to the language of section 1.
It is to my mind internally contradictory.
Davis LJ, who delivered the only reasoned judgment, accepted the submission on behalf of Mr Lachaux that the seriousness of the harm caused to the claimants reputation by the publication depended on the inherent tendency of the words.
But he appears to have thought (paras 70 73) that where this was serious, the result was to set up an inference of fact, which it was open to the defendant to rebut by evidence.
As Ms Page accepted, this will not do.
The common law rule was that damage to reputation was presumed, not proved, and that the presumption was irrebuttable.
If the common law rule survives, then there is no scope for evidence of the actual impact of the publication.
That is the main reason why in my opinion it cannot survive.
Davis LJ has, with respect, accepted the legal analysis advanced on behalf of Mr Lachaux, while attaching to it the consequences of the legal analysis advanced on behalf of the newspapers.
In my opinion, Warby Js analysis of the law was coherent and correct, for substantially the reasons which he gave.
Application to this case
On the footing that (as I would hold) Mr Lachaux must demonstrate as a fact that the harm caused by the publications complained of was serious, Warby J held that it was.
He heard evidence from Mr Lachaux himself and three other witnesses of fact, and received written evidence from his solicitor.
He also received agreed figures, some of them estimates, of the print runs and estimated readership of the publications complained of and the user numbers for online publications.
He based his finding of serious harm on (i) the scale of the publications; (ii) the fact that the statements complained of had come to the attention of at least one identifiable person in the United Kingdom who knew Mr Lachaux and (iii) that they were likely to have come to the attention of others who either knew him or would come to know him in future; and (iv) the gravity of the statements themselves, according to the meaning attributed to them by Sir David Eady.
Mr Lachaux would have been entitled to produce evidence from those who had read the statements about its impact on them.
But I do not accept, any more than the judge did, that his case must necessarily fail for want of such evidence.
The judges finding was based on a combination of the meaning of the words, the situation of Mr Lachaux, the circumstances of publication and the inherent probabilities.
There is no reason why inferences of fact as to the seriousness of the harm done to Mr Lachauxs reputation should not be drawn from considerations of this kind.
Warby Js task was to evaluate the material before him, and arrive at a conclusion on an issue on which precision will rarely be possible.
A concurrent assessment of the facts was made by the Court of Appeal.
Findings of this kind would only rarely be disturbed by this court, in the absence of some error of principle potentially critical to the outcome.
It was submitted on behalf of the defendant newspapers that there were errors of principle in the judges treatment of the facts.
It was said that the injury to Mr Lach