The tort of defamation is an ancient construct of the common law.
It has accumulated, over the centuries, a number of formal rules with no analogue in other branches of the law of tort.
Most of them originated well before freedom of expression acquired the prominent place in our jurisprudence that it enjoys today.
Its coherence has not been improved by attempts at statutory reform.
Statutes to amend the law of defamation were enacted in 1888, 1952, 1996 and 2013, each of which sought to modify existing common law rules piecemeal, without always attending to the impact of the changes on the rest of the law.
The Defamation Act 2013 is the latest chapter in this history.
Broadly speaking, it seeks to modify some of the common law rules which were seen unduly to favour the protection of reputation at the expense of freedom of expression.
In particular, there had been criticism of a state of the law in which persons resident outside the United Kingdom with only a very limited reputation in the United Kingdom were able to sue here for defamation and obtain substantial damages.
One of the principal provisions of the new Act was section 1, which provided that a statement was not to be regarded as defamatory unless it had caused or was likely to cause serious harm to the claimants reputation.
The claimant, Bruno Lachaux, is a French aerospace engineer who at the relevant time lived with his British wife Afsana in the United Arab Emirates.
The marriage broke down, and in April 2011 he began divorce proceedings in the UAE courts and sought custody of their son Louis.
In March 2012, Afsana went into hiding with Louis in the UAE, claiming that she would not get a fair trial in its courts.
In August 2012, the UAE court awarded custody of Louis to his father.
In February 2013, Mr Lachaux initiated a criminal prosecution against Afsana for abduction.
In October of that year, having found out where Louis was, he took possession of him under the custody order.
In January and February 2014, a number of British newspapers published articles making allegations about Mr Lachauxs conduct towards Afsana during the marriage and in the course of the divorce and custody proceedings.
These appeals arise out of two libel actions begun by him in the High Court on 2 December 2014 against the publishers of the Independent and the Evening Standard, and a third begun on 23 January 2015 against the publisher of the i. Other libel actions were begun against the publisher of similar articles in another online newspaper, but we are not directly concerned with them on these appeals.
In February 2015, Eady J conducted a meaning hearing.
In a reserved judgment, he held that the article in the Independent bore eight defamatory meanings, and the article in the Evening Standard 12.
In summary, the articles were held to have meant (inter alia) that Mr Lachaux had been violent and abusive towards his wife during their marriage, had hidden Louis passport to stop her removing him from the UAE, had made use of UAE law and the UAE courts to deprive her of custody and contact with her son, had callously and without justification taken Louis out of her possession, and then falsely accused her of abducting him.
For the purpose of the trial of the issue before of serious harm, which took place before Warby J in July 2015, the newspapers did not contest the primary facts set out in Mr Lachauxs Particulars of Claim.
Their case was that the statements in the articles were not defamatory because they did not meet the threshold of seriousness in section 1(1) of the Act of 2013.
To appreciate the force