.
But that impact falls to be ascertained in accordance with a number of more or less artificial rules.
First, the meaning is not that which other people may actually have attached to it, but that which is derived from an objective assessment of the defamatory meaning that the notional ordinary reasonable reader would attach to it.
Secondly, in an action for defamation actionable per se, damage to the claimants reputation is presumed rather than proved.
It depends on the inherently injurious character (or tendency, in the time honoured phrase) of a statement bearing that meaning.
Thirdly, the presumption is one of law, and irrebuttable.
In two important cases decided in the decade before the Defamation Act 2013, the courts added a further requirement, namely that the damage to reputation in a case actionable per se must pass a minimum threshold of seriousness.
The first was Jameel (Yousef) v Dow Jones & Co Inc [2005] QB 946.
The Saudi claimant had sued the publishers of the Wall Street Journal for a statement published online in Brussels to the effect that he had been funding terrorism.
The statement was shown to have reached just five people in England and Wales.
The Court of Appeal rejected a submission that the conclusive presumption of general damage was incompatible with article 10 of the Human Rights Convention.
Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers MR, delivering the leading judgment, observed (para 37) that English law has been well served by a principle under which liability turns on the objective question of whether the publication is one which tends to injure the claimants reputation.
But he held that the presumption could not be applied consistently with the Convention in those cases, said to be rare, where damage was shown to be so trivial that the interference with freedom of expression could not be said to be necessary for the protection of the claimants reputation.
The appropriate course in such a case was to strike out the claim, not on the ground that it failed to disclose a cause of action, but as an abuse of process.
The Court of Appeal held that it was an abuse of process for the action before them to proceed where so little is now seen to be at stake, and duly struck it out.
The effect of this decision was to introduce a procedural threshold of seriousness to be applied to the damage to the claimants reputation.
Two things are clear from the language of Lord Phillips judgment.
One is that the threshold was low.
The damage must be more than minimal.
That is all.
Secondly, the Court of Appeal must have thought that the operation of the threshold might depend, as it did in the case before them, on the evidence of actual damage and not just on the inherently injurious character of the statement in question.
The second case was Thornton v Telegraph Media Group Ltd [2011] 1 WLR 1985, a decision of Tugendhat J.
It arose out of an application by the Defendant newspaper to strike out part of the Particulars of Claim in a libel action on the ground that the statement complained of was incapable of being defamatory.
Allowing the application, Tugendhat J held that in addition to the procedural threshold recognised in Jameel, there was a substantive threshold of seriousness to be surmounted before a statement could be regarded as meeting the legal definition of defamatory.
The judges definition (para 96) was that a statement may be defamatory of him because it substantially affects in an adverse manner the attitude of other people towards him, or has a tendency so to do (the emphasis is the judges).
He derived this formula from dicta of Lord Atkin in Sim v Stretch [1936] 2 All ER 1237.
At para 94, he dealt with the relationship between the definition thus arrived