 of this point, it is necessary to summarise some well established features of the common law relating to damage to reputation.
The common law background
The law distinguishes between defamation actionable per se and defamation actionable only on proof of special damage.
But although sharing a common label, these are very different torts with distinct historical origins.
Libel, which is always actionable per se, originated in the disciplinary jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts and the criminal jurisdiction of the Court of Star Chamber.
The gist of the tort is injury to the claimants reputation and the associated injury to his or her feelings.
Defamation actionable per se comprised, in addition to all libels, four categories of slander which were assimilated to libel on account of their particular propensity to injure the reputation of the claimant.
These categories were (i) words imputing criminal offences, (ii) words imputing certain contagious or infectious diseases, and (iii) words tending to injure a person in his or her office, calling, trade or profession.
The Slander of Women Act 1891 added (iv) words imputing unchastity to a woman.
In these cases, the law presumes injury to the claimants reputation and awards general damages in respect of it.
These are not merely compensatory, but serve to vindicate the claimants reputation.
In a frequently quoted passage of his speech in Broome v Cassell & Co Ltd [1972] AC 1027, 1071, Lord Hailsham LC acknowledged that this may put the plaintiff in a purely financial sense in a much stronger position than he was before the wrong.
Not merely can he recover the estimated sum of his past and future losses, but, in case the libel, driven underground, emerges from its lurking place at some future date, he must be able to point to a sum awarded by a jury sufficient to convince a bystander of the baselessness of the charge .
Special damage, ie pecuniary loss caused by the publication, may be recovered in addition, but must be proved.
By comparison, slander which is not actionable per se originated as a common law action on the case, and is governed by principles much closer to those of the law of tort generally.
The law does not presume injury to reputation by mere oral statements and treats injury to feelings as insufficient to found a cause of action.
Special damage, representing pecuniary loss rather than injury to reputation, must be proved: see McGregor on Damages, 20th ed (2017), paras 46.002, 46.003; Gatley on Libel and Slander, 12th ed (2013), para 5.2.
The interest which the law protects in cases where a defamatory statement is actionable per se differs from that which it protects in other cases.
The gist of the tort where the statement is not actionable per se is not injury to reputation but, as Bowen LJ observed in Ratcliffe v Evans [1892] 2 QB 524, 532, wrongfully inflicted pecuniary loss: cf Jones v Jones [1916] 2 AC 481, 490 (Viscount Haldane).
Indeed, it is an open question, which has given rise to conflicting dicta, whether general damage is recoverable at all in such cases.
For present purposes a working definition of what makes a statement defamatory, derived from the speech of Lord Atkin in Sim v Stretch [1936] 2 All ER 1237, 1240, is that the words tend to lower the plaintiff in the estimation of right thinking members of society generally.
Like other formulations in the authorities, this turns on the supposed impact of the statement on those to whom it is communicated