auxs reputation was at least in part the result of artificial legal rules, notably the repetition rule which treats as defamatory the reporting, even without endorsement, of another persons statement; and the Dingle rule (see Associated Newspapers Ltd v Dingle [1964] AC 371) that a defendant cannot rely in mitigation of damages on the fact that similar defamatory statements have been published about the same claimant by other persons.
The argument was that while these rules of law are well established, they do not affect the factual inquiry required by section 1, namely whether the harm caused by a particular publication was serious.
It was also said that the judge should not have taken account of the damage that Mr Lachauxs reputation might suffer in the eyes of people who might get to know him in future.
Warby J must have rejected all of these submissions, and the Court of Appeal agreed with him.
So do I.
The repetition rule is a rule governing the meaning of a statement and the availability of the defence of truth.
A statement that someone else has made a defamatory statement about the claimant, although literally true, is treated as equivalent to a direct statement to the same effect.
The policy is that repeating someone elses libellous statement is just as bad as making the statement directly: Lewis v Daily Telegraph [1964] AC 234, 260 (Lord Reid).
The rule is nothing to do with the threshold of seriousness, and nothing in the 2013 Act can be taken as implicitly abolishing it or limiting its application.
The effect of the Dingle rule is to treat evidence of damage to the claimants reputation done by earlier publications of the same matter as legally irrelevant to the question what damage was done by the particular publication complained of.
It has been criticised, but it is well established.
It has the pragmatic advantage of making it unnecessary to determine which of multiple publications of substantially the same statement occurred first, something which in the case of a newspaper would often be impossible to ascertain and might differ from one reader to the next.
The practical impact of the Dingle rule in the modern law is limited by section 12 of the Defamation Act 1952, which allows a defendant to rely in mitigation of damage on certain recoveries or prospective recoveries from other parties for words to the same effect; and by the operation of the Civil Liability (Contribution) Act 1978.
Section 1 of the Act is concerned with the threshold of harm and not with the measure or mitigation of general damage.
But both raise a similar question of causation.
It would be irrational to apply the Dingle rule in one context but not the other, and no one is inviting us to abrogate it.
The judge was therefore entitled to apply it.
Turning, finally, to the complaint about the impact of the publications on those who did not know Mr Lachaux but might get to know him in future, there is no principled reason why an assessment of the harm to the claimants reputation should not take account of the impact of the publications on those who had never heard of him at the time.
The claimants reputation is harmed at the time of publication notwithstanding that the reader or hearer knows nothing about him other than what the publication tells him.
It cannot make any difference that it is only later, when he comes to know the claimant personally, that the latters diminished reputation is of any personal interest to him.
Disposal
For these reasons, while I would state the law differently from the Court of Appeal, I would dismiss these appeals on the facts.
