 at and the presumption of general damage, in terms which suggested that (unlike the Jameel test) the application of the threshold depended on the inherent propensity of the words to injure the claimants reputation: If the likelihood of adverse consequences for a claimant is part of the definition of what is defamatory, then the presumption of damage is the logical corollary of what is already included in the definition.
And conversely, the fact that in law damage is presumed is itself an argument why an imputation should not be held to be defamatory unless it has a tendency to have adverse effects upon the claimant.
It is difficult to justify why there should be a presumption of damage if words can be defamatory while having no likely adverse consequence for the claimant.
The Court of Appeal in Jameel (Yousef)s case [2005] QB 946 declined to find that the presumption of damage was itself in conflict with article 10 (see para 37), but recognised that if in fact there was no or minimal actual damage an action for defamation could constitute an interference with freedom of expression which was not necessary for the protection of the claimants reputation: see para 40.
Section 1 of the Defamation Act 2013
Section 1 is in the following terms: 1 Serious harm (1) A statement is not defamatory unless its publication has caused or is likely to cause serious harm to the reputation of the claimant. (2) For the purposes of this section, harm to the reputation of a body that trades for profit is not serious harm unless it has caused or is likely to cause the body serious financial loss.
On the present appeals, the rival constructions of this provision may be summarised as follows.
The case on behalf of Mr Lachaux is that the Act leaves unaffected the common law presumption of general damage and the associated rule that the cause of action is made out if the statement complained of is inherently injurious or, as Lord Phillips put it in Jameel and Tugendhat J in Thornton, it has a tendency to injure the claimants reputation.
The effect of the provision on this view of the matter is simply that the inherent tendency of the words must be to cause not just some damage to reputation but serious harm to it.
The defendant publishers dispute this.
Their case is that the provision introduces an additional condition to be satisfied before the statement can be regarded as defamatory, on top of the requirement that the words must be inherently injurious.
It must also be shown to produce serious harm in fact.
They submit that unless it was self evident that such a statement must produce serious harm to reputation, this would have to be established by extraneous evidence.
Warby J, after a careful analysis of the Act and the antecedent common law, substantially accepted the defendant publishers case on the law.
But he found, on the facts, that the relevant newspaper articles did cause serious harm to Mr Lachaux.
The Court of Appeal (McFarlane, Davis and Sharp LJJ) [2018] QB 594, preferred Mr Lachauxs construction of section 1, but they upheld the judges finding of serious harm.
Although the Act must be construed as a whole, the issue must turn primarily on the language of section 1.
This shows, very clearly to my mind, that it not only raises the threshold of seriousness above that envisaged in Jameel (Yousef) and Thornton, but requires its application to be determined by reference to the actual facts about its impact and not just to the meaning of the words.
In the first place, the relevant background to section 1 is the common law position, as I have summarised it.
Parliament is taken to have known what the law was prior