 to the enactment.
It must therefore be taken to have known about the decisions in Jameel (Yousef) and Thornton and the basic principles on which general damages were awarded for defamation actionable per se.
There is a presumption that a statute does not alter the common law unless it so provides, either expressly or by necessary implication.
But this is not an authority to give an enactment a strained interpretation.
It means only that the common law should not be taken to have been altered casually, or as a side effect of provisions directed to something else.
The Defamation Act 2013 unquestionably does amend the common law to some degree.
Its preamble proclaims the fact (an act to amend the law of defamation).
It is not disputed that there is a common law presumption of damage to reputation, but no presumption that it is serious.
So the least that section 1 achieved was to introduce a new threshold of serious harm which did not previously exist.
The question on these appeals is what are the legal implications of that change, and what necessarily follows from it.
Even where some change to the common law was intended, it should not go any further than that.
As Lord Reid observed in Black Clawson International Ltd v Papierwerke Waldhof Aschaffenburg AG [1975] AC 591, 615, Parliament can be presumed not to have altered the common law further than was necessary.
Secondly, section 1 necessarily means that a statement which would previously have been regarded as defamatory, because of its inherent tendency to cause some harm to reputation, is not to be so regarded unless it has caused or is likely to cause harm which is serious.
The reference to a situation where the statement has caused serious harm is to the consequences of the publication, and not the publication itself.
It points to some historic harm, which is shown to have actually occurred.
This is a proposition of fact which can be established only by reference to the impact which the statement is shown actually to have had.
It depends on a combination of the inherent tendency of the words and their actual impact on those to whom they were communicated.
The same must be true of the reference to harm which is likely to be caused.
In this context, the phrase naturally refers to probable future harm.
Ms Page QC, who argued Mr Lachauxs case with conspicuous skill and learning, challenged this.
She submitted that likely to cause was a synonym for the inherent tendency which gives rise to the presumption of damage at common law.
It meant, she said, harm which was liable to be caused given the tendency of the words.
That argument was accepted in the Court of Appeal.
She also submitted, by way of alternative, that if the phrase referred to the factual probabilities, it must have been directed to applications for pre publication injunctions quia timet.
Both of these suggestions seem to me to be rather artificial in a context which indicates that both past and future harm are being treated on the same footing, as functional equivalents.
If past harm may be established as a fact, the legislator must have assumed that likely harm could be also.
As to pre publication injunctions, the section is designed to import a condition to be satisfied if the statement is to be regarded as defamatory at all.
It is not concerned with the remedies available for defamation, whether interlocutory or final.
It is right to add that pre publication injunctions are extremely rare, because of the well established constraints on judicial remedies which restrict freedom of expression in advance of publication.
Thirdly, it is necessary to read section 1(1) with section 1(2).
Section 1(2) is concerned with the way in which section 1(1) is to be applied to statements said to be defamatory of a body trading for profit.
It