 publications therefore give rise at common law to distinct causes of action.
Section 8 of the Defamation Act 2013 provides that where a statement has been made to the public or a section of the public (for example in a newspaper) and later republished in the same or substantially the same terms, any cause of action against the [same] person for defamation in respect of the subsequent publication is to be treated as having accrued on the date of the first publication.
The object of this provision is to deprive claimants of the right to sue on a further publication by the same person of substantially the same defamatory statement, more than a year after the first publication.
They must sue on the first publication or run the risk of being time barred.
The argument is that section 8 assumes that the common law rule that the cause of action accrues on publication subsists, subject only to the modification that the accrual of the cause of action for a qualifying second publication is backdated to the date of the first.
Therefore, it is said, section 1 must be construed on the footing that the cause of action is complete on publication and not on some later date at which serious harm may occur.
One of the problems of legislating piecemeal for different aspects of the law of defamation, as the Act of 2013 does, is that the interrelation between different rules may be overlooked.
I rather doubt whether Parliament got to grips with the implications of section 1 for limitation.
I would not therefore modify my construction of section 1, which I regard as clear, even if I agreed with Ms Page that its effect was to postpone the accrual of the cause of action for defamation actionable per se.
But I do not agree with her about that.
It is necessary to distinguish between the damage done to an interest protected by the law, and facts which are merely evidence of the extent of that damage.
Where a statement is actionable per se, the interest protected by the law is the claimants reputation.
As an element in the cause of action for defamation, publication does not mean commercial publication, but communication to a reader or hearer other than the claimant.
The impact of the publication on the claimants reputation will in practice occur at that moment in almost all cases, and the cause of action is then complete.
If for some reason it does not occur at that moment, the subsequent events will be evidence of the likelihood of its occurring.
In either case, subsequent events may serve to demonstrate the seriousness of the statements impact including, in the case of a body trading for profit, its financial implications.
It does not follow that those events must have occurred before the claimants cause of action can be said to have accrued.
Their relevance is purely evidential.
The position is different where a statement is not actionable per se, because the interest protected by the law in that case is purely pecuniary.
The pecuniary loss must therefore have occurred.
Section 14 is concerned only with the law of slander.
It abolishes two of the four categories of slander actionable per se, by repealing the Slander of Women Act 1891 which made the imputation of unchastity to a woman actionable per se, and by providing that an imputation that a person has a contagious or infectious disease is not to be actionable without proof of special damage.
The argument is that since section 14 abolishes two of the categories of slander actionable per se, section 1 should not be read as abolishing all of them.
The fallacy of this argument is that it assumes that section 1 does abolish all of them.
I do not think that it does.
To say that a slander is actionable per se simply means that it is actionable without proof of special damage.
That is still the case for