 refers to the same concept of serious harm as section 1(1), but provides that in the case of such a body it must have caused or be likely to cause serious financial loss.
The financial loss envisaged here is not the same as special damage, in the sense in which that term is used in the law of defamation.
Section 1 is concerned with harm to reputation, whereas (as I have pointed out) special damage represents pecuniary loss to interests other than reputation.
What is clear, however, is that section 1(2) must refer not to the harm done to the claimants reputation, but to the loss which that harm has caused or is likely to cause.
The financial loss is the measure of the harm and must exceed the threshold of seriousness.
As applied to harm which the defamatory statement has caused, this necessarily calls for an investigation of the actual impact of the statement.
A given statement said to be defamatory may cause greater or lesser financial loss to the claimant, depending on his or her particular circumstances and the reaction of those to whom it is published.
Whether that financial loss has occurred and whether it is serious are questions which cannot be answered by reference only to the inherent tendency of the words.
The draftsman must have intended that the question what harm it was likely to cause should be decided on the same basis.
Finally, if serious harm can be demonstrated only by reference to the inherent tendency of the words, it is difficult to see that any substantial change to the law of defamation has been achieved by what was evidently intended as a significant amendment.
The main reason why harm which was less than serious had given rise to liability before the Act was that damage to reputation was presumed from the words alone and might therefore be very different from any damage which could be established in fact.
If, as Ms Page submits, the presumption still works in that way, then this anomaly has been carried through into the Act.
Suppose that the words amount to a grave allegation against the claimant, but they are published to a small number of people, or to people none of whom believe it, or possibly to people among whom the claimant had no reputation to be harmed.
The laws traditional answer is that these matters may mitigate damages but do not affect the defamatory character of the words.
Yet it is plain that section 1 was intended to make them part of the test of the defamatory character of the statement.
I agree, as the judge did, that this analysis is inconsistent with the previous common law governing statements actionable per se.
But it is inconsistent with it only to this extent: that the defamatory character of the statement no longer depends only on the meaning of the words and their inherent tendency to damage the claimants reputation.
To that extent Parliament intended to change the common law.
But I do not accept that the result is a revolution in the law of defamation, any more than the lower thresholds of seriousness introduced by the decisions in Jameel and Thornton effected such a revolution.
Ms Page argued that to construe section 1 in the way that I have done would transform the way in which the Limitation Act 1980 applies to actions for defamation; and that it would effectively abolish the distinction between defamation actionable per se and defamation actionable only on proof of special damage.
In both respects, this was said to be inconsistent with other provisions of the Act, notably sections 8 and 14.
Section 8 is concerned with limitation.
Section 4A of the Limitation Act 1980 provides for a limitation period in defamation actions of one year from the accrual of the cause of action.
The cause of action is treated at common law as accruing on publication where it is actionable per se, and on the occurrence of special damage in other cases.
Successive