 the Divisional Court in the Attwood case, cited in para 61 above, Bailhache J said at p 155: It therefore becomes appropriate to analyse the effect of each of the three the courts will sever in a proper case where the severance can be performed by a blue pencil but not otherwise.
To give an illustration, a covenant not to carry on business in Birmingham or within 100 miles may be severed so as to reduce the area to Birmingham, but a covenant not to carry on business within 100 miles of Birmingham will not be severed so as to read will not carry on business in Birmingham.
The distinction seems artificial, but is I think settled.
The distinction is indeed settled.
It is inherent in the word severance itself, which means cutting things up and does not extend to adding things in.
The blue pencil criterion is a significant brake on application of the principle; and, although it can work arbitrarily, it is in my view an appropriate brake on the ability of employers to secure severance of an unreasonable restraint customarily devised by themselves.
Were it ever to be thought appropriate to confer on the court a power to rewrite a restraint so as to make it reasonable, it would surely have to be achieved by legislation along the lines of that in New Zealand which has been noticed in para 79 above.
The second criterion is that the remaining terms continue to be supported by adequate consideration.
It goes without saying that an employer who sues on a covenant made otherwise than under seal must show that he provided consideration for it.
But why is it said to be a prerequisite of his ability to sever? The answer is surely to be found in the unusual circumstances of the Sadler and Marshall cases, which generated the criteria adopted in the Beckett case.
In those two cases it was the claimant employee who secured severance of unreasonable obligations cast by the contract upon himself.
In that situation the court needed to satisfy itself (and in each case it did so) that, were his unreasonable obligation to be removed, there would nevertheless remain consideration passing from him under the contract such as would support the obligation which he was seeking to enforce.
In the usual post employment situation, however, the need to do so does not arise.
A claimant employer who asks the court to sever and remove part of a covenant made by the defendant employee is in no way proposing to diminish the consideration passing from himself under the contract such as is necessary to support the obligation which he seeks to enforce.
In the usual situation the second requirement can be ignored.
The third criterion is that the removal of the unenforceable provision does not so change the character of the contract that it becomes not the sort of contract that the parties entered into at all.
This is the crucial criterion and I find it impossible to equate it with the Attwood requirement, as suggested by the Court of Appeal.
In my view this third criterion was rightly imported into the general jurisprudence by the Beckett case and has rightly been applied by our courts ever since then, otherwise than in the decision under appeal.
But I suggest, with respect, that the criterion would better be expressed as being whether removal of the provision would not generate any major change in the overall effect of all the post employment restraints in the contract.
It is for the employer to establish that its removal would not do so.
The focus is on the legal effect of the restraints, which will remain constant, not on their perhaps changing significance for the parties and in particular for the employee.
Application of the severance principle to Ms Tillmans restraint covenants now becomes straightforward.
First, the words or interested are capable of being removed from the non competition covenant without the need to add to or modify the wording of the remainder.
And, second, removal of the prohibition against her being interested would not