 hold otherwise seems to me to expose the covenantor to the almost inevitable risk of litigation which in nine cases out of ten he is very ill able to
afford
Thus was the stage set for the decisions in Attwood v Lamont, first of the Divisional Court of the Kings Bench Division, [1920] 2 KB 146, and then of the Court of Appeal, [1920] 3 KB 571.
The claimant, who carried on business in Kidderminster as a draper, tailor and general outfitter, employed the defendant as a cutter in the tailoring department.
The defendant covenanted not at any time thereafter to trade as a tailor, dressmaker, general draper, milliner, hatter, haberdasher, gentlemens, ladies or childrens outfitter within ten miles of Kidderminster.
The defendant left the claimants employment and set up business as a tailor; and, although he based it more than ten miles away, he returned to Kidderminster to obtain and execute tailoring orders there, including from the claimants former customers.
The Divisional Court, on appeal from the county court, agreed that the list of prohibited trades was too wide but held that the covenant should be severed so as to enable the reference to all trades other than that of a tailor to be removed and that the defendant should be enjoined from trading as a tailor within ten miles of the town.
Bailhache J at p 156 held that the covenant was clearly severable.
He noted that in the Mason case, in which on any view the covenant had not been severable, Lord Moulton had added that, even if clearly severable, a covenant should not be severed unless the excess was trivial or technical.
But he, Bailhache J, expressed himself satisfied that Lord Moultons addition was contrary to authority.
Sankey J at pp 158 159 made similar remarks.
The Court of Appeal, reversing the order of the Divisional Court, held that the covenant was not severable.
But, although its conclusion was unanimous, the route taken to it was different.
Lord Sterndale MR gave the first judgment; but the binding authority of the decision attached to the judgment of Younger LJ because it was with his judgment that, without adding anything, Atkin LJ agreed.
Lord Sterndale observed at p 577 that the tendency of recent decisions had been to limit severability more than previously but that in his view it remained the law that severance was available if the parts proposed to be severed were independent and if it did not affect the meaning of what was proposed to remain.
At p 578 he quoted with approval what Sargant J had said in the SV Nevanas case, set out in para 59 above; and he suggested that, if severance of one part were to leave the remainder of the covenant with a meaning different in kind and not only in extent from its previous meaning, the parts of the covenant could not be said to be substantially equivalent to separate covenants.
At p 580 he concluded, however, that severance of the list of trades would entirely alter the scope and intention of the agreement and so failed Sargant Js test.
Younger LJ (a) stated at p 581 that recent decisions of the House of Lords had wrought a fundamental change in the approach of the law to post employment restrictions, which were peculiarly susceptible to current views of public policy; (b) observed there that the principle of freedom of contract still remained operative in contracts between the vendor and purchaser of a business; (c) suggested at p 593 that severance of a covenant was available only where it was not really a single covenant but [was] in effect a combination of several distinct