 generate any major change in the overall effect of the restraints.
So those words should be severed and removed.
Another of the Court of Appeals objections to removing the words or interested from Ms Tillmans non competition covenant was that removal would be idle in that the remainder would continue unlawfully to oblige her not to hold any shares in companies of the character there specified.
For the covenant would then become that she would not directly or indirectly engage or be concerned in any business; and, so the Court of Appeal considered, any holding of shares in a company would mean that she was indirectly concerned in it.
The company expressly accepts, at any rate in this court, that, if necessary, it would be content for the words or be concerned also to be removed from Ms Tillmans covenant; and my view is that, had the Court of Appeals construction of the word concerned been correct, it would, by reference to the criteria identified above, have been appropriate also to remove them.
But are you, as no more than a shareholder in a company, concerned in it? In Ashcourt Rowan Financial Planning Ltd v Hall [2013] EWHC 1185 (QB), [2013] IRLR 637, the defendants non competition covenant prohibited him from being engaged or concerned in any business.
It did not include the words or interested.
Andrew Smith J concluded at para 39, that the word concerned denoted working for the business or having some other active involvement in it and so did not extend to a proprietary interest, such as a shareholding, in it.
But a conclusion which there was clearly borderline becomes stronger in the present case.
For Ms Tillman covenanted that she would not engage or be concerned or interested ; and there was no specific reference to her doing so as a shareholder, as there was in the East England Schools case.
Conventional principles of construction require value to be attributed, if possible, to each word of an agreement.
But, were the word concerned to be construed so as to cover passive interest in a business such as that enjoyed by a shareholder, what value would be left to be attributed to the word interested? Nor is such an exercise in construing the word concerned undermined by the fact that the words or interested are to be severed and removed.
The meaning which the words of an agreement carry at its inception is not changed by later events.
In British Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co Ltd v Schelff [1921] 2 Ch 563, 573, Younger LJ (no less) said: Now the effect of severing by striking out with a blue pencil the obnoxious part of a covenant is not to alter or affect the construction of what is left.
That must be construed as if the portion struck out still remained
Conclusion
I therefore propose that the court should set aside the Court of Appeals order and should overrule the decision in the Attwood case; and that, although the contractual period of the restraints has expired long ago, it should formally restore the injunction granted by Mann J, subject only to the removal of the words or interested.
The court should also invite submissions on the proper orders in respect of the costs incurred in each of the three courts.
In para 104 of his judgment on the interim inquiry into the Freshasia Foods case the deputy judge described as legal litter the unreasonable parts of post employment restrictions to which employers extract the agreement of prospective employees; and he added that they cast an unfair burden on others to clear them up.
It is a neat metaphor.
In my view the company should win but there might be a sting in the tail.
