, and in some cases will, enforce a part of a covenant in restraint of trade, even though taken as a whole the covenant exceeds what is reasonable.
But, in my opinion, that ought only to be done in cases where the part so enforceable is clearly severable, and even so only in cases where the excess is of trivial importance, or merely technical, and not a part of the main purport and substance of the clause.
It would in my opinion be pessimi exempli if, when an employer had exacted a covenant deliberately framed in unreasonably wide terms, the Courts were to come to his assistance and, by applying their ingenuity and knowledge of the law, carve out of this void covenant the maximum of what he might validly have required.
It must be remembered that the real sanction at the back of these covenants is the terror and expense of litigation, in which the servant is usually at a great disadvantage, in view of the longer purse of his master.
These passing observations of Lord Moulton were to have an electric effect on the law.
Within six months of their publication Sargant J was seeking to explain part of them away.
In SV Nevanas & Co v Walker and Foreman [1914] 1 Ch 413 an employer admitted that the second part of a post employment covenant was void but contended that the first part was valid and, following severance, should be enforced.
Sargant J held that the first part was also void and so dismissed the claim.
He was however at pains to say that, had the first part been valid, the second part could have been severed and removed from it.
He said at p 422 that he wished to clear the ground at once from a suggestion that, in view of certain remarks of Lord Moulton in the recent case of [Mason], this part of the covenant is invalidated, because the succeeding part of the covenant is, admittedly, too wide.
I do not think that those remarks were intended to be applicable to cases where the two parts of a covenant are expressed in such a way as to amount to a clear severance by the parties themselves, and as to be substantially equivalent to two separate covenants.
No question of the kind was involved in the case before the House of Lords, and I think that Lord Moulton was not intending to deal with the numerous cases of high authority in which the good part of such a covenant was held to be enforceable,
notwithstanding its collocation with a bad part
Several months later, however, Lord Moultons observations attracted outspoken support from Neville J in Goldsoll v Goldman [1914] 2 Ch 608.
In the event the judge applied the principle of severance to a non competition agreement made between two jewellers in Bond Street; and, later to be substantially upheld by the Court of Appeal [1915] 1 Ch 292, he enforced the valid part of it by injunction.
At the outset of his judgment, however, at pp 611 612, he had railed against the long standing modification of the doctrine against restraint of trade which rescued a restraint to the extent that it was reasonable; indeed he called it a blot on the jurisprudence.
Then at p 613 he had added: Again I think that the application of the doctrine of severability of the terms of a contract in restraint of trade has proved mischievous.
It seems to me to be in accordance both with principle and justice that if a man seeks to restrain another from exercising his lawful calling to an extent which the law, even as it now stands, deems unreasonable, the contract by which he does so, whether grammatically severable or not, should be held to be void in toto.
To