 covenants; (d) held there that the list of prohibited trades was in effect contained in one covenant because (so he reasoned) the claimant himself had only one trade and not several trades; (e) noted there that, even if he was wrong to regard the list of trades as contained in one covenant, the court should nevertheless decline to sever it; (f) quoted with approval at pp 594 595 the observations first of Lord Moulton that severance should be confined to the trivial and the technical and then of Neville J in the Goldsoll case that a partly unreasonable restraint should make it entirely void, even if grammatically severable; and (g) concluded at p 595 that severance should not generally be allowed.
Although, as I will suggest in para 82 below, there were, and remain, good reasons of public policy for the law to take a cautious approach to the severance of a post employment restraint, the decision of the majority in the Attwood case, founded, as it was, upon the passing observations of Lord Moulton and on the hostile approach of Neville J to the whole concept, suddenly made the common law fiercely restrictive of it.
How easy would it be for courts to apply the first requirement, that the covenant should in effect be a combination of different covenants? And what would they make of the second requirement, that the part proposed to be removed should be no more than trivial or technical?
In Putsman v Taylor [1927] 1 KB 637 the claimant employed the defendant as manager of his tailoring business at 49 Snow Hill in Birmingham.
The defendant covenanted that, following the end of his employment, he would not be employed by a tailor (a) anywhere else on Snow Hill nor (b) within half a mile of Aston Cross nor (c) within half a mile of the Bristol Road.
He became employed by a tailor at 73 Snow Hill.
The Divisional Court of the Kings Bench Division severed the covenant, removed (b) and (c) as too wide and enforced (a) against the defendant by way of injunction.
Salter J suggested at pp 640 641 that in the Attwood case it had been Lord Sterndale who had articulated a definite test, namely whether severance would render the covenant different in kind and not only in extent; and he held that removal of (b) and (c) affected only the extent of the covenant.
Talbot J observed at p 643 that the law relating to the severability of illegal contracts was as fully applicable to those in restraint of trade as to those illegal in any other respect; and at p 645 that Lord Moultons observations in the Mason case referred to the inability of the court to substitute terms which had not been expressed for terms which were unreasonably wide.
Neither judge addressed the second requirement identified in the Attwood case.
In Scorer v Seymour Jones [1966] 1 WLR 1419 the Court of Appeal took a similar approach to that taken by the Divisional Court in the Putsman case.
The claimant, an estate agent in Dartmouth, opened a branch in Kingsbridge and employed the defendant to manage it.
The defendants post employment covenant was not to set up as an estate agent within five miles either of Kingsbridge or of Dartmouth.
He set up as an estate agent within five miles of Kingsbridge.
The court severed the covenant, removed the reference to Dartmouth as too wide and enforced the remainder.
Although the Attwood case was cited to them, none of the judges expressly referred to either of its requirements.
In T Lucas & Co Ltd v Mitchell [1974] 1 Ch 129 the claimant, which manufactured foodstuffs