 this last clause prevented her entry into the proposed employment but alleged that it was in unreasonable restraint of trade and therefore void.
On 10 April 2017 the company issued proceedings in which it applied for an interim injunction to restrain Ms Tillmans entry into the proposed employment.
On the undertaking of the company to compensate her in damages if the court were later to hold it not to be entitled to the injunction, she undertook not to enter into the proposed employment until the court had determined the application.
The lower courts were impressively accommodating to the fact that the issue related to a covenant which on any view had no effect beyond 30 July 2017.
On 15 and 16 May 2017 Mann J heard the companys application and on 23 May he delivered a substantial judgment in which he granted the injunction: [2017] EWHC 1278 (Ch), [2017] IRLR 828.
On 11 July the Court of Appeal heard Ms Tillmans expedited appeal and on 21 July, by a judgment delivered by Longmore LJ with which Patten and Sales LJJ agreed, it upheld it, set aside the injunction and dismissed the companys claim: [2017] EWCA Civ 1054, [2018] ICR 574.
It is against the Court of Appeals order that the company brings the present appeal.
The temporal limitation of the dispute and therefore the reality that determination of the companys application would dispose of the whole claim also led the parties to agree, and Mann J to accept, that the grant of the injunction should depend on a closer inquiry into the merits of the companys claim than whether it merely raised a serious question apt to the conventional determination of an application for an interim injunction: NWL Ltd v Woods [1979] 1 WLR 1294.
By her Defence, Ms Tillman alleged that the non competition covenant exceeded the companys need to protect its legitimate interests, and was therefore void, for no less than five different reasons.
But, by the time of the hearing before Mann J, the substantial focus was on one argument alone.
It was that the effect of the part of the non competition covenant not to be interested in any of the competing businesses there specified was unreasonably to prohibit her from holding even a minority shareholding in such a business.
She did not allege that she aspired to hold any shares in the business which proposed to employ her or in any other of the competing businesses there specified; but such was agreed to be irrelevant.
The companys response to her argument was (a) to dispute that, on its proper construction, the covenant prohibited her from holding even a minority shareholding in any of the competing businesses there specified; and to concede that, if, contrary to (a), the covenant did prohibit her from (b) doing so, the whole of it was in unreasonable restraint of trade but to contend that a word or words (which the judge took to be the words or interested) should be severed and removed from the remainder of the clause, with the result that she would remain prohibited from entering into the proposed employment.
Mann J upheld the companys response at (a) above.
He so construed the word interested in the non competition covenant as not to prohibit Ms Tillman from holding shares in any of the competing businesses there specified.
He therefore had no need to address what he took to be the companys alternative contention that, together of course with the word or, the word should be severed and removed from the remainder of the clause; he added however that, although it had not been developed at any length, he did not find that contention appealing.
In upholding Ms Tillmans appeal, the Court of Appeal rejected the construction placed by Mann J upon the word interested in the non