 single trade; and at para 155 that the court should adopt a broad, practical, rule of reason approach to determining the applicability of the doctrine.
It is an approach which this court should also adopt.
In Issue (A) the company contends that the word interested in the non competition covenant falls outside the doctrine but concedes that the remainder of the covenant falls within it.
It is a curious proposition, namely that the restraints provided in the rest of the covenant are valid only if reasonable but that the restraint provided by that word is valid although unreasonable.
The company cites no authority in which a particular word in a covenant which substantially falls within the doctrine has been held to fall outside it.
The covenant was cast in terms which, no doubt on advice, the company considered that it could justify as reasonable for the purposes of the doctrine; and among these terms was one which, for the purposes of Issue (A), we are to construe as prohibiting Ms Tillman from holding any shares in the specified businesses.
By clause 13.3 Ms Tillman acknowledged that the provisions of this clause 13 are fair and reasonable.
The acknowledgement is hard to explain unless the law required them all of them to be fair and reasonable.
A similar conclusion is to be derived, even more clearly, from clause 13.4, set out in para 9 above.
It provided that, were any restriction in clause 13 to be held invalid as exceeding what was reasonable for the protection of the companys interest, it should be severed and the balance of the restriction should remain enforceable.
Subclause (4) represents a clear acknowledgement that all the restraints in subclauses (1) and (2) fall within the doctrine.
Nor is it in any way surprising that, in seeking to protect itself against competing activity on the part of Ms Tillman in the immediate aftermath of her employment, the company should have aspired to prohibit her from holding shares in the potentially competitive businesses specified in the non competition covenant.
Any controlling shareholding on her part would, by definition, enable her to direct the competitors operations.
But even a minority shareholding, say a 25% shareholding in a company started up with three others, would enable her to influence its operations.
And, even more obviously, the employment of a top executive such as Ms Tillman is frequently subject to conditions that she should hold shares in her employer or be remunerated partly in its shares or in options to purchase them.
Indeed, as explained in para 5 above, it was a condition of her becoming a partner in the company in 2009 that she should hold shares in the holding company.
In substance as well as in form the restraint on shareholding is part of the restraint on Ms Tillmans ability to work in the immediate aftermath of her employment.
The proper determination of Issue (A) is that, on the assumption that the word interested purports to restrain Ms Tillman from holding shares in the specified businesses, it falls within the doctrine.
Issue (B): Construction
The companys argument here is that, when properly construed, the word interested in the non competition covenant does not prohibit Ms Tillman from holding shares in the businesses there specified; and that accordingly in this respect Mann J was right and the Court of Appeal was wrong.
The company concedes that in some contexts a person holding shares in a company will properly be described as being interested in it.
But it contends, uncontroversially, that the meaning of the word is informed by its context in the agreement as a whole: Wood v Capita Insurance Services Ltd [2017] UKSC 24, [2017] AC 1173, para 10.
It argues that the word interested, when considered in the context of its agreement with Ms Tillman as a whole