 Tillman from engaging or being concerned or interested in a competing business in any one of several capacities, the non competition covenant had to be read as a whole and could not be severed.
In para 33 he rejected the companys submission that the three criteria approved in the Beckett case had replaced the requirement for separate covenants.
He explained that: The requirement is reflected in the third of the three tests because it must always be doubtful whether parts of a single covenant can be deleted without the contract becoming not the sort of contract that the parties entered into at all.
We in this court have had the benefit of fuller argument and greater opportunity for reflection than had the Court of Appeal.
At all events it is clear that, even were the Attwood case still to be regarded as authoritative, that court took a narrow view of its effect in appearing to discern a single covenant by reference to nothing other than the form of its words.
More importantly, however, the time has come to determine whether the Attwood case should remain authoritative.
High ranking employees can do particular damage to the legitimate interests of their employers following termination of their employment; and it may be that, when they enter into their post employment covenants, they are able to negotiate with their employers on nearly an equal footing.
As Denning LJ said in M & S Drapers v Reynolds [1957] 1 WLR 9, 19, A managing director can look after himself; and so, arguably, could Ms Tillman.
But then he added: A traveller is not so well placed to do so.
The law must protect him.
It is clearly common practice for an employer to present a prospective employee with a substantial written contract, many terms of which, including those imposing post employment restraints, are derived from books of precedent.
It is as valid in 2019 as it was in 1913 to infer that most prospective employees will not be able, even if minded, to decline to accept such terms, still less, following the end of their employment, to defend a claim that they are in breach of them.
The courts must continue to adopt a cautious approach to the severance of post employment restraints.
Nevertheless both of the requirements which were shoe horned into the law by the Attwood case were, as we have seen, to prove both instantly controversial and ultimately unsatisfactory.
An inquiry whether the covenant proposed to be severed was indeed one covenant or whether in effect it was more than one covenant proved to be of elusive application, largely dependent on the eye of the beholder.
Why was the list of prohibited trades in the Attwood case one covenant but the list of prohibited areas in each of the Putsman and Scorer cases in effect more than one covenant? And, being a question noted in para 78(e) above, why should an unreasonable restraint of insignificant proportions fail to qualify for severance just because of its place in a single covenant? The second requirement of triviality or technicality reflected an attempt to sideline application of the entire severance principle to post employment restraints.
It is far from clear that, even in 1913 and 1920, public policy demanded it; and in 1972 in the T Lucas case, it was rightly criticised in the strongest possible terms, following which it fell away.
criteria indorsed in the Beckett case.
The first is that the unenforceable provision is capable of being removed without the necessity of adding to or modifying the wording of what remains.
This is the so called blue pencil test.
Unfortunately it can work capriciously and, if the aspiration of our judgments today had been to discern in the common law a principle which can always be applied so as to produce a sensible outcome, we would have laboured in vain.
In his judgment in