 social change.
The need for adjustment is well exemplified by the decision of the appellate committee of the House of Lords in the Nordenfelt case cited in para 24 above.
The appellant, who had been a manufacturer of guns and ammunition, had covenanted with the respondent, which had taken over his business, not to engage in manufacture of them anywhere in the world for 25 years.
The committee held that, notwithstanding its width, the covenant was reasonable and so enforceable against him.
Lord Herschell, the Lord Chancellor, explained at p 547 that changed conditions of commerce and of the means of communication meant that Lord Macclesfields reference to the irrelevance to a London trader of similar trade in Newcastle was out of date; and that what would once have been merely a burden on the covenantor may now be essential if there is to be reasonable protection to the covenantee.
Lord Watson observed at p 555 that there had been a protracted struggle between the principle of freedom of contract and the doctrine and that the latter had had the worse of the encounter, particularly in courts of equity.
Lord Macnaghten held at p 565 that there was a general rule that restraints of trade were void but that there was an exception to the rule where the restriction was reasonable by reference to the interests of both parties and of the public.
You cannot, so he observed at p 572 in relation to a vendors covenant, sell the cow and sup the milk.
In Herbert Morris Ltd v Saxelby [1916] 1 AC 688 the members of the appellate committee all stressed that different considerations applied to restraints on a vendor of a business from those which applied to restraints on an ex employee; that, as Lord Atkinson said at p 701, the purchaser of a business had paid for its goodwill, including for the vendors covenant which protected and enhanced it; that, as Lord Shaw of Dunfermline said at p 714, an employer was entitled to reasonable protection against dissemination of his trade secrets or solicitation of his customers, in other words against misuse of his property, but not directly against the employees use of his skill and his manual or mental ability, which were the employees own property; and that, as Lord Shaw added at p 716, a delicate balance was always required between freedom of trade and freedom of contract.
During the last century questions arose about the width of the doctrine, in particular whether it extended beyond contracts of employment and for sale of a business.
Did it apply to a contract in which I agree to buy specified goods only from you? Or to sell specified goods only to you? Or to sell to others specified goods bought only from you? An early example was Servais Bouchard v The Princes Hall Restaurant (Ltd) (1904) 20 TLR 574.
A restaurant in Piccadilly had contracted with a supplier of burgundy not to sell burgundy to its customers other than such as it had purchased from the supplier.
The restaurant broke the contract and the Court of Appeal held that the supplier was entitled to enforce it.
Sir Richard Henn Collins, the Master of the Rolls, held that the contract fell outside the doctrine; the other members of the court apparently held instead that, albeit within the doctrine, the restraint was reasonable.
Later decisions demonstrated a similar slide into a verdict in relation to reasonableness in preference to an attempt to discern the boundaries of the doctrine: Dickson v Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain [1970] AC 403, 431.
The outer reaches of the doctrine were, however, more fully explored, albeit with obvious difficulty, by the appellate committee in Esso Petroleum Co Ltd v Harpers Garage (Stourport) Ltd [1968] AC 269.
The