 third feature relates to the direct link in the non competition covenant between the word interested and the words in any business.
Interest in a business, submits the company, connotes active interest in it and is to be contrasted with the passive interest of a shareholder in a company.
In relation to the first and third features the company claims to derive valuable support from the decision of Foskett J in Tradition Financial Services Ltd v Gamberoni [2017] EWHC 768 (QB), [2017] IRLR 698.
There the post employment restrictions on the employee were in somewhat similar terms to those in the present case and included a covenant on his part not for six months to undertake, carry on or be employed, engaged or interested in any capacity in any business activity of a specified character.
Among the employees various contentions that the restrictions were in unreasonable restraint of trade was a contention, identical to that reflected in Issue (B), that the word interested disabled him from holding even a small quantity of shares in companies of the specified character.
In response the employer in the Tradition Financial Services case adverted to two features of the contract, identical to the first and third features to which the company adverts in the present case.
Thus, as Foskett J explained in para 127 of his judgment, the employer relied on an earlier clause of the contract under which during his employment the employee had been permitted to hold small amounts of shares, even apparently in competing companies.
This was the foundation of the employers primary argument, which the judge described as follows and which he accepted: it cannot sensibly have been intended that [the employee] should be subject to a more onerous restriction as to shareholdings after his employment had terminated than whilst still an employee, particularly if it is suggested that the more onerous obligation is created by a clause that makes no express reference to shareholdings at all.
In other words, whatever interested in any capacity . in any business activity means, it cannot be a reference to a shareholding.
Indeed, as Foskett J explained in para 128, the employer also relied on the fact that the covenant prohibited the employee from being interested in a business activity and it argued that passive investment by way of a minority shareholding was not a business activity.
The judge explained that he gave less weight to this argument but that, when added to the employers primary argument, it supported his conclusion that the word interested did not cover a shareholding.
The trouble is that, without expressly acknowledging it, Foskett J, whose opinion is on any view entitled to considerable respect, was there departing from the obvious natural meaning of the word interested, such as had been recognised in our law for more than a century without dissent.
In Smith v Hancock [1894] 2 Ch 377 the defendant sold his grocery business near Stoke on Trent to the claimant and agreed not for the following ten years to carry on or be in any wise interested in any similar business operating within five miles of it.
The defendants wife set up a grocery within those parameters.
In the Court of Appeal Lindley LJ held at p 386 that the word interested meant a proprietary or pecuniary interest and that it did not extend to the indirect interest which every man has in the happiness and welfare of his wife.
He and A L Smith LJ both reluctantly held that, on the judges findings, the defendant was not interested in his wifes business.
In Gophir Diamond Co v Wood [1902] 1 Ch 950 the ex employee of a jewellery shop in Regent Street had become a salaried employee of a rival shop in the same street.
Swinfen Eady J noted at p 952 that his covenant had only been not to be interested in a similar