 it.
To require a measure of equal plausibility of the rival meanings is to make unnecessary demands on the court and to set access to the principle too narrowly; but, on the other hand, to apply it whenever an element of ambiguity exists is to countenance too great a departure from the otherwise probable meaning.
In Inland Revenue Comrs v Williams [1969] 1 WLR 1197, which related to the meaning of a clause in a deed of appointment, Megarry J adverted at p 1201 to the reference by Harman LJ in the Badens Deed Trusts case to the need for an even balance and added: It is possible that the same approach might be adopted where the scales are tilted only slightly to one side or the other; but plainly it cannot apply where, apart from the effect of the rule against perpetuities or some other sources of invalidity, the court reaches the conclusion that one construction is clearly preferable to the other the right view may well be that, before the doctrine can apply, the court must be left in a state of real and persistent uncertainty of mind.
In Great Estates Group Ltd v Digby [2011] EWCA Civ 1120, [2012] 2 All ER (Comm) 361, Toulson LJ explained that, if the contract was capable of being read in two ways, the meaning which would result in validity might be upheld even if it is the less natural construction.
And in Tindall Cobham 1 Ltd v Adda Hotels [2014] EWCA Civ 1215, [2015] 1 P & CR 5, Patten LJ, with whom the other members of the court agreed, observed at para 32 that the search was for a realistic alternative construction which might engage the principle.
In my view Megarry J, Toulson LJ and Patten LJ were identifying the point at which the principle is engaged in much the same place.
Let us work with Patten LJs adjective: let us require the alternative construction to be realistic.
In its need to set up a realistic construction of the word interested, alternative to a construction which relates it to a shareholding, the company adverts to three features of the context of the word in the agreement as a whole.
The first is the content of clause 4.5, set out in para 10 above.
For the duration of her employment, it expressly prohibited Ms Tillman from holding shares in specified businesses except for a holding of up to 5% of issued shares in a publicly quoted company.
So the company argues that, when in their agreement it and Ms Tillman wanted to address her holding of shares, they did so expressly; and that it would be anomalous that, having acknowledged her freedom to hold a limited number and type of shares in specified businesses during her employment, they should have agreed that she should be prohibited from doing so in the immediate aftermath of her employment by their use of the word interested, which of course stands unqualified in the non competition covenant.
This argument found favour with Mann J, who held that it would be right to adopt a construction which did not give rise to this anomaly.
The second feature relates to the introductory words of clause 13.2, set out in para 7 above.
There the company and Ms Tillman set out the different types of status in which she was to be subject to the restraints which followed, namely as principal, manager, employee, contractor, consultant, agent or otherwise howsoever.
Notwithstanding (says the company) the catch all words at the end, the significance of the list is that it could so easily have included the word shareholder if the restraint in the non competition covenant had been intended to prohibit Ms Tillman from holding shares.
The