ivatives case cited in para 41 above; (e) rejected at paras 41 and 42 the suggestion that those three criteria applied only to claims by employees to post employment commission and likened the third criterion to the reference in the T Lucas case to the availability of severance if achievable without altering the nature of the contract; (f) approaching these cases and should be adopted; and (g) the deeming provision removable. concluded at para 44 that application of those three criteria rendered
suggested at para 43 that the threefold test is a useful way of
Following the decision in 2007 in the Beckett case, there have been a number of decisions at first instance in which issues of severability of post employment restraints have been determined by reference to those three criteria, sometimes with the addition of the fourth criterion suggested in the Marshall case.
For example, in East England Schools CIC v Palmer [2013] EWHC 4138 (QB), [2014] IRLR 191, the claimants business was that of an agency which sought to find teachers for schools with teaching vacancies.
Among the post employment restraints included in the first defendants contract with the claimant was a provision that, whether as shareholder or otherwise, she should not be concerned with the supply of Services to any school or teacher with whom she had had recent dealings.
Mr Richard Salter QC, sitting as a deputy judge of the Queens Bench Division held at para 77 that this provision, which specifically extended to her status as a shareholder, was unreasonably wide because it would even prevent her from having a minority shareholding in a competing company which supplied such services.
But, by reference to the three criteria and the additional criterion, he proceeded to declare that the provision should be severed and removed from the remainder of the restraints, which were enforceable.
He had therefore asked himself at para 86 whether severance would change the underlying character of the contract.
He had not asked himself whether the unreasonable provision in effect formed a separate covenant.
In UK Power Reserve Ltd v Read [2014] EWHC 66 (Ch) there was focus, yet again, on whether the effect of the words concerned or interested in a post employment restraint was to preclude the ex employee from having no more than a passive minority shareholding in a competitor, because, if so, they were unreasonably wide.
Mr Jeremy Cousins QC, sitting as a deputy judge of the Chancery Division, held that, in the light of a proviso, such was not the effect of the words.
But in paras 87 to 93 he observed in passing that, had such been their effect, he would have severed the covenant and removed them from the remainder in accordance with the four criteria first identified in the Sadler and Marshall cases.
He referred in para 87 to the strong body of recent authority which suggested that the law had developed so as to require them to be applied.
In Freshasia Foods Ltd v Lu [2018] EWHC 3644 (Ch) Mr Daniel Alexander QC, sitting as a deputy judge of the Chancery Division, recently granted an interlocutory injunction by way of enforcement of parts of an employees non solicitation post employment covenant.
Treating the inquiry as purely interlocutory, he made only provisional determinations.
These were that three aspects of the covenant were unreasonably wide but that, following severance, they should be removed from the remainder.
Prompted in part, so it would seem, by the Court of Appeals decision against which this present appeal is brought, he conducted a wide ranging survey of the law of severance of post employment restraints in which he made a number of valuable observations.
Even more recently, following a full hearing