A company employs a business executive pursuant to a written agreement.
Following the termination of her employment she wishes to become employed by a firm whose business is in competition with that of the company.
The company contends that her proposed employment would breach a covenant in the agreement.
She answers that the covenant is void at common law because part of it is in unreasonable restraint of trade.
Before this court the company replies with three contentions, each of which she disputes.
Each of the companys contentions raises an issue with a different hypothesis, as follows: (A) The hypothesis in Issue (A) is that the employees construction of the part of the covenant alleged to be in unreasonable restraint of trade is correct.
Here the company contends that the impugned part falls outside the doctrine against restraint of trade (the doctrine) and that it is therefore irrelevant that, had it fallen within the doctrine, it would have been in unreasonable restraint of it. (B) The hypothesis in Issue (B) is that the employees construction of the impugned part is incorrect.
Here the company contends that, upon a correct construction of it, it is not in unreasonable restraint of trade. (C) The hypothesis in Issue (C) is that, as in Issue (A), the employees construction of the impugned part is correct; but that, contrary to the companys contention in Issue (A), it does fall within the doctrine.
Here the company contends that, although it is in unreasonable restraint of trade, the impugned part should be severed and removed from the remainder of the covenant, which would therefore survive so as to prohibit the employees entry into the proposed employment.
One can argue that Issue (B) is logically anterior to Issue (A).
But, since Issue (A) purports to test the very boundaries of the doctrine, a balance of convenience favours consideration of it first.
I will explain why in my opinion the most difficult and important issue raised in the appeal is Issue (C): when part of a post employment covenant is in unreasonable restraint of trade, in what circumstances should the court sever and remove it so as to leave the employee bound by the remainder of it?
The Facts
Egon Zehnder Ltd (the company), the appellant, is the UK subsidiary of a Swiss company and part of a worldwide group which is in the business of specialist executive search and recruitment.
The group has nine practice areas into one of which it will place each of its recruiting customers.
Ms Tillman, the respondent, had previously been employed by J P Morgan as European Managing Director.
The company considered that she would be ideally placed in the financial services practice area of its business.
It employed her as a consultant, with effect from 5 January 2004, pursuant to the terms of an employment agreement dated 10 December 2003.
It agreed to pay her a salary of 120,000 pa and, at the end of the first year, a bonus of 100,000 provided that she then remained in its employment.
Mann J, at first instance, observed that the company regarded Ms Tillman as a bit special and that it expected to promote her.
It duly promoted her to be a principal in 2006 and to be a partner in 2009.
A condition of her becoming a partner was that she should hold shares in the Swiss holding company; and she began to do so.
In 2012 she became joint global head of the companys financial services practice area.
The agreement made in 2003 was never replaced in order to reflect her promotions although no doubt a few of its terms, in particular relating to her remuneration, then changed.
In any event, however, resolution of the issues raised by the appeal requires the court to address the terms of the original agreement.
Clause 