 garage company had entered into solus agreements with Esso to sell petrol bought only from Esso at two of its filling stations and to do so at one of them for in effect five years and at the other for 21 years.
The committee held that, on balance, both contracts fell within the doctrine and that, while the agreement for the shorter period was reasonable and enforceable against the garage, the other was unreasonable and unenforceable.
Lord Reid noted at p 294 that a contract under which a person agreed to work exclusively for another fell outside the doctrine although it detracted from his freedom to work as he pleased; and at p 298 that a restrictive covenant upon land which prohibited its use for trading fell outside the doctrine because the purchaser of the land who became subject to it was not surrendering any freedom to trade there which he had previously enjoyed.
Lord Pearce observed at p 325 that, for the same reason, a contract under which a publican took a lease from a brewer of a tied public house fell outside the doctrine; but that the garage company, by contrast, already ran the filling stations when it accepted Essos restrictions.
He added at p 328 that it was the sterilising of a mans capacity for work and not its absorption that underlay the objection to restraint of trade; and he cited Warner Brothers Pictures, Inc v Nelson [1937] 1 KB 209, in which the contract by which Miss Bette Davis had agreed not to work otherwise than for the claimant for one year was enforced against her.
Lord Wilberforce, at pp 333 to 335, favoured a pragmatic analysis under which restrictive covenants on land and tied public houses, having long been accepted to fall outside the doctrine, must for that reason be taken to have satisfied the demands of public policy on which the doctrine rested.
In my view the resolution of Issue (A) does not require any closer study of the boundaries of the doctrine.
For the contract in the present case is of the classic type between employer and employee and, as is agreed, it does provide for a restraint of trade which falls within the doctrine and which is therefore void unless reasonable.
The only question under Issue (A) is whether an assumed prohibition against holding shares forms part of the restraint.
In this regard assistance is to be derived from the decision of the Court of Appeal in Proactive Sports Management Ltd v Rooney [2011] EWCA Civ 1444, [2012] IRLR 241.
Wayne Rooney set up a company to which he assigned his image rights, in other words his rights to exploit his image by, for example, his indorsement of sports products and by other forms of promotion and sponsorship.
His company contracted with the claimant to act as its agent in negotiating contracts for the exploitation of his image.
His company breached the contract and, when sued by the claimant, it contended that the contract fell within the doctrine.
The claimant disputed that it did so but accepted the trial judges conclusion that, if it did so, its terms were in unreasonable restraint of trade and unenforceable, albeit that it was entitled to a restitutionary remedy.
At para 67 my lady, then Arden LJ, recorded the claimants submission that Wayne Rooneys trade was as a footballer and that exploitation of his image rights formed no part of it.
She held however at paras 92 and 93 that, although his business of exploiting his image rights was ancillary to, and indeed dependent on, his primary occupation of playing football, it fell within the doctrine.
The other members of the court agreed.
Gross LJ added at para 153 that Wayne Rooneys activities on field and, in exploiting his image rights, off field were both part of a