 business; and the judge added, intriguingly for present purposes, that in that regard the covenant had materially departed from the common form in the then current edition of Palmers Company Precedents that the covenantor should not be engaged or concerned or interested in a similar business.
He held that, since his remuneration had in no way depended on the profits of the rival shop, the ex employee was not in breach of his covenant.
It does seem that the phrase engaged or concerned or interested, adopted in the non competition covenant in the present case, has been included in standard precedents for the drafting of non competition covenants throughout the last century.
It has popped up frequently in the reported cases, including in CEF Holdings Ltd v Mundey [2012] EWHC 1524 (QB), [2012] IRLR 912.
Silber J there held that for various reasons the non competition covenant was in unreasonable restraint of trade.
One of his reasons, set out in para 65(i), was that [i]ts width is so great that it prevents any employees from having any interest in [a competing] company, such as even owning one share in a publicly quoted company.
The companys alternative construction of the word interested needs to be realistic.
What is its proposed construction? At the hearing Lady Hale inquired about it.
Even Mr Laddie QC on behalf of the company struggled to find an answer.
He suggested that the word might be casual surplusage.
Is that good enough? What was the construction placed on the word by Foskett J in the Tradition Financial Services case? As set out in para 48 above, he did no more than to adopt the employers submission that, whatever it meant, it did not refer to shareholding.
Was that good enough?
The proper determination of Issue (B) is that the natural construction of the word interested, consistent with long standing authority, is that it covers a shareholding; that the three features of the present agreement on which the company relies are insufficient to require a different construction to be placed on the word, when found in clause 13.2.3; that the company fails to establish even a realistic alternative construction of it which would engage the validation principle; that the word interested in the non competition covenant in the present case therefore covers a shareholding, whether large or small, and on that basis is, as is conceded, in unreasonable restraint of trade; and that, unless it can be severed and removed from the rest of the clause, the Court of Appeal was right to set aside the injunction granted against Ms Tillman.
Issue (C): Severance
Where part of a contract is unenforceable, the enforceability of the remainder represents an issue which arises far more widely than in contracts of employment.
In Carney v Herbert [1985] AC 301 the problem was that the security for payment of the price, for which a contract for the sale of shares had provided, was not only a guarantee but also mortgages which were statutorily illegal.
The Privy Council indorsed a decision of the Supreme Court of New South Wales that the provision for mortgages could be severed and removed from the contract, with the result that the guarantee should be enforced.
Lord Brightman, who delivered the judgment of the Board, observed at p 309 that tests for determining severability in certain types of case were not always applied satisfactorily in others.
But then, with hesitation, he suggested at p 317 that, as a general rule, where parties enter into a lawful contract and there is an ancillary provision which is illegal but exists for the exclusive benefit of the plaintiff, the court may and probably will, if the justice of the case so requires, and there is no public policy objection