 competition covenant.
It held that its effect would be to prohibit Ms Tillman from holding even a minority shareholding in any of the competing businesses there specified and that, as such, the covenant was in unreasonable restraint of trade; and it refused to sever the word from the remainder of the clause so as to save the remainder of the prohibition.
Issue (A): The Doctrine
The hypothesis here is that Ms Tillman is correct to construe the word interested in the non competition covenant as purporting to prohibit her from holding any shares, however small a proportion of those issued, in a company conducting business in competition with such of the businesses of the group as are there specified.
On that hypothesis the company concedes that, if the doctrine applied to it, the prohibition reflected in that word, in particular by excluding the sort of minor shareholding which was permitted to Ms Tillman during her employment, would exceed any necessary protection of its interests; that it would therefore be in unreasonable restraint of trade; and that the word would accordingly need to be severed and removed from the remainder in order to justify the injunction sought.
But the company contends that the doctrine does not apply at all to a prohibition against holding shares.
Not every post employment restriction agreed in a contract of employment will, says the company, restrain trade.
It seeks to make its point by reference to an extreme example: what if (it asks) Ms Tillman had there agreed not to play mah jong for six months following the end of her employment?
The company did not raise Issue (A) in either of the courts below.
Wrongly, as I will suggest, it considered that the doctrine of precedent would have obliged both of them to reject its contention which the issue reflects.
The company seems to have had in mind in particular the decision of the Court of Appeal in Scully UK Ltd v Lee [1998] IRLR 259.
An employee had covenanted that throughout the year following termination he would not engage in or be otherwise interested in, whether as a shareholder employee or in any other capacity any business, which was defined in terms not limited to the employers competitors.
The trial judge held that the prohibition against shareholding on the part of the employee was too wide because it would catch even a small holding but that it should be severed and removed and that the remainder should be enforced against him.
The Court of Appeal took no issue with the judges objection to the prohibition against shareholding but upheld the employees appeal on the basis that there were other unreasonable features of the covenant incapable of severance.
It seems clear therefore that in the Scully UK case both courts were making an assumption, rather than reaching a focussed determination, that the word interested not only represented a prohibition against holding shares but also fell within the doctrine.
The same can be said of the decision in Geo Hill and Co v Hill (1886) 55 LT 769.
The claimant company acquired the meat export business of the defendant, who covenanted not to be in any way concerned or interested in any similar business within ten miles of the Royal Exchange.
He became an employee of a similar business within that radius.
The judge held that it was unnecessary to decide whether he was interested in the business, which, the judge added, meant in commercial language entitled to profits, because on any view he was concerned in it; and that the covenant should be enforced against him.
When a court makes an assumption about the law, instead of reaching a focussed determination in relation to it, the decision based upon it does not carry binding authority under the doctrine of precedent: National Enterprises Ltd v Racal Communications Ltd [1975] Ch 397, 406 to 408.
But, notwithstanding the absence of a decision on Issue (A) which could have been sought in the courts below,