 following year he should not work for a competitor.
Within that year the claimant, then aged 40, did work for a competitor.
Mr Jonathan Sumption QC, sitting as a deputy judge of the Chancery Division, chose to apply the three criteria for severance which had been identified in the Sadler case; but he suggested a fourth, namely that severance should be consistent with the public policy underlying avoidance of the offending part.
He said at p 1466 that application of the third criterion, which called for inquiry into change in the character of the contract, was altogether more satisfactory than the more traditional and question begging statement of the test: whether there is one obligation or more than one.
The complicating feature was the second proviso, which identified an alternative route to entitlement to post employment commission, namely that on termination the agent should have attained the age of 65.
This second proviso was not even arguably in restraint of trade but, if the first proviso were alone to be removed, the second would survive to preclude payment of the commission to the claimant.
In the event the deputy judge regarded both provisos as linked and removed them both.
In the Marshall case the Court of Appeal, [1997] 1 WLR 1527, dismissed the companys appeal against the deputy judges decision.
Millett LJ observed at p 1531: Although the question is described as one of severance it is important to bear in mind that we are not concerned to decide how much of an offending restriction should be struck down.
In such a case the question is to what extent can the party who imposed the restriction enforce those parts of it which are not in unreasonable restraint of trade.
We are concerned with a very different question, namely, whether the party who has been freed from an invalid restraint of trade can enforce the remainder of the contract without it.
As Millett LJ observed, it was the employee (or agent) who was seeking severance in the Sadler and Marshall cases; and therefore there was no relevance in the public policy reasons for restricting severance when sought by overbearing employers who had required their employees to subscribe to extravagant restraints.
In Beckett Investment Management Group Ltd v Hall [2007] EWCA Civ 613, [2007] ICR 1539, the defendants, who had been employed by the claimant as independent financial advisers, covenanted that, for the year immediately following termination of their employment, they would not deal with any of the claimants clients with whom they had dealt in the preceding year; and that, if they had then dealt with agents of its clients, the agents should be deemed to be its clients for this purpose.
The Court of Appeal held that the deeming of agents as clients was unreasonable; that the covenant should be severed and the deeming provision removed; and that the remainder of the restraint should be enforced against the defendants.
In a judgment with which Sir Anthony Clarke MR and Carnwath LJ agreed, Maurice Kay LJ (a) observed at para 34 that [a]t one stage there had been an assumption in the authorities, such as the Mason case, that courts should be reluctant to sever a covenant in restraint of trade in favour of an employer; (b) declared at paras 35 37 that the appropriate starting point was what Lord Sterndale and Younger LJ had said in the Attwood case; (c) noted at para 38 that in the T Lucas case, cited in para 69 above, the court had authoritatively rejected the second prerequisite of severance which Younger LJ had identified; addressed at para 40 the three criteria identified in the Sadler case and (d) noted that it had been applied both in the Marshall case and in the TFS Der