 this court has granted permission to the company to raise it and it must therefore receive a focussed determination.
The doctrine is one of the earliest products of the common law.
It epitomises the nation which developed it: a nation which has ascribed central importance to the freedom of all of us to work in the interests both of the self sufficiency of ourselves and our families and of our common prosperity.
In Dyers case, 2 Hen 5, f 5, pl 26, 1414, John Dyer, a dyer, was sued in the Court of Common Pleas for breach of a condition in an indenture that he would not work as a dyer for six months.
He contended that he had not broken the condition but Justice Hull observed that he should have taken a wider point, namely that the obligation was void.
By God, added the judge, if the plaintiff was here, he would go to prison until he paid a fine to the King.
Two hundred years later the invalidity of restraints of trade remained unqualified.
In Colgate v Bacheler (1601) Cro Eliz 872, the defendant agreed that, if for three years his son worked as a haberdasher in Canterbury or Rochester, he would pay the plaintiff 20.
The court held the agreement to be void irrespective of its limitations of time and place because it was against the benefit of the commonwealth and because the defendants son ought not to have been abridged of his trade and living.
But in the 17th century the absolute nature of the right of the ex employee or vendor of a business to work or trade elsewhere irrespective of his covenant began to be tempered.
For paradoxically the doctrine against restraint of trade was positively inhibiting trade.
In Nordenfelt v The Maxim Nordenfelt Guns and Ammunition Co Ltd [1894] AC 535, 564, Lord Macnaghten explained: it was found that a rule so rigid and far reaching must seriously interfere with transactions of every day occurrence.
Traders could hardly venture to let their shops out of their own hands; the purchaser of a business was at the mercy of the seller; every apprentice was a possible rival.
So the rule was relaxed.
The law came to recognise that the employer or the purchaser of a business had legitimate interests which might justify his placing limited restrictions on his employee or vendor.
In 1711 Chief Justice Parker, later Lord Macclesfield, gave the seminal judgment of the Court of Queens Bench in Mitchel v Reynolds.
The immaculate report of it is at (1711) 1 P Wms 181 and any study of the contribution made by law reporters to the development of our law would do well to include it.
The defendant had assigned to a purchaser the lease of a bakery in Holborn for five years and had entered into a bond with him not to trade as a baker elsewhere in Holborn for that period.
Lord Macclesfield held at p 192 that all restraints of trade were presumed to be bad but that at p 193 that Judge Hulls vehemence towards them had been (a) the presumption was rebuttable; (b) excusable but not his manner of expressing it; (c) at p 191 that a restraint of trade throughout England would always be bad (for what does it signify to a tradesman in London what another does at Newcastle?); but (d) of the assignment, was reasonable and should be enforced. at p 197 that this bakers bond, limited to Holborn and to the five years Thus was the concept of reasonableness authoritatively grafted on to the doctrine by way of modification of it.
Based as it is on public policy, the doctrine has regularly had to adjust to