, employed the defendant as a salesman in Manchester.
His post employment covenant was not to deal in goods similar to those manufactured by the claimant nor to solicit orders from, nor to supply, any of its recent customers.
Following termination of his employment, he solicited orders from a number of its recent customers.
The Court of Appeal held that the claimants legitimate interests justified the covenants against solicitation and supply but that the covenant against dealing was unreasonable.
It held, however, that the latter should be removed following severance and the former enforced.
By a judgment delivered on its behalf by Russell LJ, it held at p 135 that the latter could be removed without altering the nature of the contract and that its removal would not confer on the former a meaning and effect different in kind and extent.
Then, at p 136, the court addressed the further step apparently required by the Attwood case; and, although it did so in slightly ambiguous terms, a careful reading of the report impels the conclusion that it was referring to what I have described as the second requirement in the Attwood case, namely that the part proposed to be removed should be no more than trivial or technical.
The court declared that it looked askance at this requirement, which, it added, much strains our loyalty to precedent and with which a decision of equal stature, namely that of the Court of Appeal in the Scorer case, was wholly inconsistent.
The post employment covenant in Sadler v Imperial Life Assurance Co of Canada Ltd [1988] IRLR 388 arose in circumstances significantly different from those addressed above.
The defendant employed the claimant as an insurance agent on commission, to be calculated by reference to premiums paid to the defendant for the first ten years under any policy which he had procured.
A clause of the contract stated that, if in certain circumstances he left the defendants employment, it would, subject to a proviso, continue to pay him commission in respect of premiums thereafter paid to it for the first ten years under any policy which he had procured.
The proviso was that this post employment commission would cease if he began to work for another insurance company.
The claimant left the defendants employment and began to work for another insurance company.
The defendant refused to pay him further commission.
In his claim for payment of it he contended that the proviso was in unreasonable restraint of trade and thus void and that it should be severed and removed from the remainder of the clause, which should continue to entitle him to the commission.
Mr Peter Crawford QC, sitting as a deputy judge of the Queens Bench Division, upheld his claim.
He rejected the defendants contention that if, which it had denied, the doctrine against restraint of trade applied at all, the whole clause, including for the payment of further commission, was void.
Following a survey of the authorities, the deputy judge concluded at para 19 that the proviso could be removed from the remainder of the clause since (1) there was no need to add to or modify the wording of the remainder, (2) the remainder continued to be supported by adequate consideration and (3) the removal did not so change the character of the contract that it becomes not the sort of contract that the parties entered into at all.
Save for one complicating feature, the circumstances in Marshall v NM Financial Management Ltd [1995] 1 WLR 1461 were similar to those in the Sadler case.
The claimants remuneration from the company was again linked to premiums paid over many years under policies issued by the company which he had procured.
Again the contract included a clause that in specified circumstances such remuneration should continue to be paid notwithstanding termination of his agency; but in this case payment was subject to two provisos.
The first was that in the immediately