, permit the plaintiff to enforce the contract without the illegal provision.
It is clear that considerations of public policy drove the evolution of the doctrine under common law that post employment restraints of trade were, unless reasonable, void: see paras 23 to 25 above.
It is less clear that, until the early years of the last century, considerations of public policy also drove a more restrictive approach to severance in post employment restraints of trade than was adopted in other areas.
Take, for example, Chesman v Nainby (1726) 2 Ld Raym 1456.
Miss Nainby traded as a draper from her home in Drury Lane.
Prior to her marriage Mrs Chesman became apprenticed to Miss Nainby.
Mrs Chesman entered into a bond that, after leaving Miss Nainbys service, she would not trade as a draper, nor assist anyone else to do so, within half a mile of Miss Nainbys home in Drury Lane or of any other house that [Miss Nainby] shall think proper to remove to and that, in the event of breach, she would pay Miss Nainby 100.
After leaving Miss Nainbys service Mrs Chesman assisted her husband to trade as a draper elsewhere up Drury Lane.
It was held in the Court of Common Pleas, and upheld on appeal first by the Court of Kings Bench and then by the House of Lords itself in accordance with the opinion of its judicial members, that Mrs Chesman owed Miss Nainby 100.
Applying the recent decision in Mitchel v Reynolds addressed in para 25 above, the court accepted that it was unreasonable to seek to restrict Mrs Chesman from trading, or continuing to trade, within half a mile of any other house to which Miss Nainby might at any stage move, even in the remotest part of the kingdom.
Nevertheless at p 1459 it upheld Miss Nainbys submission that if a bond is given, with condition to do several things, and some are agreeable to law, and some against the common law; the bond shall be good as to the doing the things agreeable to law, and only void as to those that are against the law.
Early in the last century, however, a much more restrictive view was suddenly taken of the availability of severance in post employment covenants.
The reasons of public policy which drove a conclusion that, unless reasonable, they were void were adopted and expanded to suggest a further conclusion that, where parts of them were unreasonable, not even the reasonable parts should usually be enforced.
This further conclusion was most vividly expressed in unlikely circumstances.
In Mason v Provident Clothing and Supply Co Ltd [1913] AC 724 the employee had covenanted not to work for any of the employers competitors within 25 miles of London.
The appellate committee held that the employer had failed to establish that the extension of the restraint to the area thus specified was reasonably necessary for its protection and concluded that it was therefore void.
It is hard to see how on any view the offending words could have been severed; and, although the employer apparently argued in the alternative for severance, it must have done so briefly for there is no mention of it in the report of its counsels argument.
At all events, at the end of his speech, with which no other member of the committee expressed agreement, Lord Moulton, at p 745, added the following: It was suggested in the argument that even if the covenant was, as a whole, too wide, the court might enforce restrictions which it might consider reasonable (even though they were not expressed in the covenant), provided they were within its ambit.
My Lords, I do not doubt that the court may