13 of the agreement was entitled COVENANTS and it provided for five restraints upon the activities of Ms Tillman following the end of her employment, all limited to the six months which would immediately follow it.
By the first, in clause 13.1, she covenanted not to endeavour to entice away from the company any of its employees in specified senior positions.
The other four restraints were included in clause 13.2.
Its introductory words, arguably relevant to Issue (B), are as follows: You [Ms Tillman] shall not without the prior written consent of the company directly or indirectly, either alone or jointly with or on behalf of any third party and whether as principal, manager, employee, contractor, consultant, agent or otherwise howsoever By the first of the other four restraints, set out in clause 13.2.1, Ms Tillman covenanted not to solicit the custom of, nor to deal with, specified suppliers of services to the company.
By the second, set out in clause 13.2.2, she covenanted not to seek to interfere with supplies to the company.
By the fourth, set out in clause 13.2.4, she covenanted not to use any name likely to be confused with any name recently used by the company.
The third of the restraints in clause 13.2, set out in clause 13.2.3, is central to all the issues in the appeal.
There Ms Tillman covenanted that she would not directly or indirectly engage or be concerned or interested in any business carried on in competition with any of the businesses of the Company or any Group Company which were carried on at the Termination Date or during the period of 12 months prior to that date and with which you were materially concerned during such period.
I will refer to this as the non competition covenant.
By clause 13.3, Ms Tillman acknowledged that the provisions of clause 13 were fair, reasonable and necessary to protect the goodwill and interests of the company.
Clause 13.4 provided: If any of the restrictions or obligations contained in this clause 13 is held not to be valid as going beyond what is reasonable for the protection of the goodwill and interest of the Company but would be valid if part of the wording were deleted, then such restriction or obligation shall apply with such modifications as may be necessary to make it enforceable.
As I will explain, the question raised in Issue (B) relates to whether the word interested in clause 13.2.3 purports to prohibit Ms Tillman from holding any shares in a company conducting business in competition with such businesses there specified as were conducted within the companys group.
To that question an earlier clause of the agreement, casting a restraint upon her during the period of her employment, is arguably relevant: 4.5.
You shall not, during the course of your employment, directly or indirectly, hold or have any interest in, any shares or other securities in any company whose business is carried on in competition with any business of the Company , except that you may hold or have an interest in, for investment only, shares or other securities in a publicly quoted company of up to a maximum of 5% of the total equity in issue of that company.
On 30 January 2017 Ms Tillmans employment by the company came to an end.
Shortly thereafter she informed it that she intended to start work, on (as she later added) 1 May 2017, as an employee of a firm which was in competition with the company.
She made clear that she intended fully to comply with all her covenants in the agreement apart from that in clause 13.2.3.
She conceded that, by its terms,