 claims i) tried; ii) iii) against the anchor defendant; iv) success; v) that, either, England is the proper place in which to bring the combined claims or that there is a real risk that the claimants will not obtain substantial justice in the alternative foreign jurisdiction, even if it would otherwise have been the proper place, or the convenient or natural forum.
that the claims against the foreign defendant have a real prospect of
As already noted, the question whether the claims disclose a real triable issue against Vedanta is a main issue on this appeal.
It is however accepted that, if the claimants surmount this hurdle, it would be reasonable for the English court to try that issue, and that KCM would be at least a proper party to the claims against Vedanta.
It is also (now) common ground that the claims against KCM have a real prospect of success.
Both the judge and the Court of Appeal found in the claimants favour on real issue and proper place.
In addition, they both found that, even if Zambia would otherwise have been the proper place in which to bring the claims, there was a real risk that the claimants would not obtain substantial justice in the Zambian jurisdiction.
Those questions remain in issue on this appeal.
In the remainder of this judgment, the issues will be addressed in the following order: i) Abuse of EU law. ii) Real issue as against Vedanta. iii) Proper place. iv) Substantial justice.
Abuse of EU law
The essence of the appellants case under this heading may be summarised as follows.
First, it is an abuse of EU law to use article 4 of the Recast Brussels Regulation as a means of enabling claimants to establish jurisdiction against an anchor defendant for the collateral purpose of attracting a member states international jurisdiction against foreign defendants, who are the real targets of the claim.
It is said that, whereas article 4 is designed to protect defendants domiciled within the EU, this abuse exposes to litigation domiciled parent companies who would not, apart from their status as anchor defendants, otherwise be sued at all.
The judges response was to acknowledge that there might be an abuse if the pursuit of the anchor defendant had been for the sole purpose of attracting jurisdiction as against the foreign defendant, but not otherwise.
He found, on the facts, that although the prospect of attracting jurisdiction against KCM was a substantial reason why the claimants sued Vedanta in England, it was not their only reason.
They had a bona fide claim, disclosing a real issue for trial, against Vedanta and a desire to obtain judgment against Vedanta rather than merely against KCM, because of a perception, supported by some evidence, that KCM might prove to be of doubtful solvency.
Faced with those findings of fact as to the claimants motivation, the appellants pursue this ground of appeal upon the basis that the judges application of a sole purpose test for abuse of EU law was too narrow or, at least, not acte clair, thereby necessitating a reference to the Court of Justice.
For the purposes of analysis, the abuse of EU law claim needs to be approached upon the assumption, but without at this stage deciding, that the claim discloses a real triable issue as against Vedanta.
If it does not, then Vedanta falls away as an anchor defendant, and the necessary or proper party gateway, as against KCM, closes.
Furthermore, as will appear, I consider that the judges conclusion that the claim discloses a real triable issue as against Vedanta cannot be overturned in this court.
Nor can the judges conclusion that Vedanta was not sued by the claimants in England for the sole purpose of attracting English jurisdiction over KCM be challenged on this appeal.
His conclusion