, involved only one difficult point of law.
A particular reason for the requirement to exercise proportionality in jurisdiction disputes of this kind is that, in most cases, they involve a contest between two competing jurisdictions in either of which the parties could obtain substantial justice.
The exception, an issue whether substantial justice is obtainable in one of the competing jurisdictions, may require a deeper level of scrutiny, not least because a conclusion that a foreign jurisdiction would not provide substantial justice risks offending international comity.
Such a finding requires cogent evidence, which may properly be subjected to anxious scrutiny.
Nonetheless, the fact that such an issue arises in a particular case (as in this appeal) is no excuse for ignoring the requirement for proportionality in relation to all the other issues.
Judicial restraint is of particular importance in relation to jurisdiction disputes which, wholly exceptionally, reach this court, in particular in cases such as the present, where the Court of Appeal has already concurred with the fact finding and evaluative analysis of the first instance judge.
The essential business of this court is to deal with issues of law, rather than fact finding or the re exercise of discretion.
The pursuit of detailed matters of factual (or evaluative) analysis in this court is therefore inappropriate, both because it is likely to involve a needless and useless misapplication of the parties time and resources, and because it distracts this court from its proper focus upon real issues of law.
Nor is it permissible to dress up what is in reality a factual dispute as if it were, or involved, a misdirection in law by the first instance judge.
As will appear, a telling example in the present case is the appellants assertion that Coulson J applied an insufficiently rigorous or detailed analysis of the claimants pleaded case against Vedanta, for the purpose of deciding whether it disclosed a real issue to be tried.
Within every jurisdiction dispute, or embedded question whether there is a triable issue, the first instance judge faces a typical quandary: how to balance the requirement for proportionality against the need to ensure that resources are not wasted on an unnecessary trial.
The choice, at how deep a level of detail to conduct that analysis and then in how much detail to express conclusions in a judgment, are matters for the experienced first instance judge, with which an appellate court should be slow to interfere.
The fact that it has been necessary, despite frequent judicial pronouncements to the same effect, yet again to emphasise the requirements of proportionality in relation to jurisdiction appeals, suggests that, unless condign costs consequences are made to fall upon litigants, and even their professional advisors, who ignore these requirements, this court will find itself in the unenviable position of beating its head against a brick wall.
The issues on this appeal
Although technically there are two appeals, one by each of the defendants, they are closely interrelated and the proceedings before this court are best understood as a single appeal.
The issues, and the interrelationship between them, can most easily be summarised by reference to the structure applicable to the establishment of jurisdiction in claims against defendants one of which is domiciled within, and the other without, the jurisdiction of the English court.
The defendant domiciled here will be referred to as the anchor defendant.
The defendant domiciled abroad will be referred to as the foreign defendant.
The essential structure is common ground and may therefore be briefly summarised.
the Recast Brussels Regulation, which provides that: Jurisdiction against the anchor defendant derives directly from article 4.1 of Subject to this Regulation, persons domiciled in a member state shall, whatever their nationality, be sued in the courts of that member state.
That basic provision is designed not only for the protection of EU domiciliaries, but also to enable a claimant to know, with reasonable certainty, where he