 have laid down but also implemented those standards by training, monitoring and enforcement, as sufficient on their own to show that it is well arguable that a sufficient level of intervention by Vedanta in the conduct of operations at the Mine may be demonstrable at trial, after full disclosure of the relevant internal documents of Vedanta and KCM, and of communications passing between them.
It matters not whether this court would have reached the same view as did the judge about triable issue.
It is sufficient that, for the reasons which I have given, there was material upon which the judge could properly do so, and that his assessment was not vitiated by any error of law.
Breach of statutory duty by Vedanta
The claimants plead that, regardless whether Vedanta owed any common law duty of care to them, its intervention in the operation of the Mine caused it to commit breaches of duties imposed by Zambian statutes, even though KCM was the sole licensed operator of the Mine.
They are the Mines and Minerals Development Act 2008, the Environmental Management Act 2011 and the Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act 1990.
Generally speaking they impose strict liability on KCM but, according to the opinion of the claimants Zambian law expert, they also impose a fault based liability on a wider range of persons.
For example, section 4 of the Environmental Management Act 2011 enables the court to compel the person responsible for any environmental degradation to restore the environment to its status quo ante and to provide compensation to any victim for the harm caused.
In paras 91 and following of the Particulars of Claim the same facts are repeated as are relied upon for the assertion of a common law duty of care against Vedanta by the repeated use of this rubric: In the light of the matters pleaded above and the First Defendants direction and control over the operations of the
Second Defendant
I must admit having some difficulty with the concept of a fault based liability which does not depend upon the existence of a prior legal duty to take care.
Nonetheless, it is reasonably clear from the claimants Zambian law experts evidence (which for the purposes of testing an arguable case it is agreed must be accepted, although vigorously challenged) that substantially the same inquiry as to the extent of Vedantas intervention in the operation of the Mine is required for the purpose of establishing breach by it of statutory duty, as is required for the identification of a common law duty of care to the claimants.
It follows that no useful purpose is served by a minute examination of issues about that statutory duty.
Furthermore, once it is concluded that there is no basis for going behind the judges conclusion that the claimants had an arguable case in common law against Vedanta, the question whether or not the claimants have an arguable statutory claim as well can make no difference to the outcome of this appeal.
For much the same reasons, both the judge and the Court of Appeal dealt with the statutory basis of claim with commendable brevity.
Is England the proper place in which to bring the claim against KCM?
important question of law.
CPR 6.37(3) provides that: I have found this to be the most difficult issue in this appeal.
It does raise an The court will not give permission [to serve the claim form out of the jurisdiction] unless satisfied that England and Wales is the proper place in which to bring the claim. (my emphasis) The italicised phrase is the latest of a series of attempts by English lawyers to label a long standing concept.
It has previously been labelled forum conveniens and appropriate forum, but the changes in language have more to do with the Civil Procedure Rules requirement to abjure Latin, and to express procedural rules and concepts in plain English, than with any intention to