 now common ground, this broadly replicates the summary judgment test.
Issues of this kind are, regardless whether contained within jurisdiction disputes, subject to a similar requirement for proportionality, the avoidance of mini trials and the exercise of judicial restraint, in particular in complex cases, as was emphasised in the following well known passage from the speech of Lord Hope of Craighead in Three Rivers District Council v Governor and Company of the Bank of England (No 3) [2003] 2 AC 1: 94.
For the reasons which I have just given, I think that the question is whether the claim has no real prospect of succeeding at trial and that it has to be answered having regard to the overriding objective of dealing with the case justly.
But the point which is of crucial importance lies in the answer to the further question that then needs to be asked, which is what is to be the scope of that inquiry? I would approach that further question in this way.
The 95. method by which issues of fact are tried in our courts is well settled.
After the normal processes of discovery and interrogatories have been completed, the parties are allowed to lead their evidence so that the trial judge can determine where the truth lies in the light of that evidence.
To that rule there are some well recognised exceptions.
For example, it may be clear as a matter of law at the outset that even if a party were to succeed in proving all the facts that he offers to prove he will not be entitled to the remedy that he seeks.
In that event a trial of the facts would be a waste of time and money, and it is proper that the action should be taken out of court as soon as possible.
In other cases it may be possible to say with confidence before trial that the factual basis for the claim is fanciful because it is entirely without substance.
It may be clear beyond question that the statement of facts is contradicted by all the documents or other material on which it is based.
The simpler the case the easier it is likely to be to take that view and resort to what is properly called summary judgment.
But more complex cases are unlikely to be capable of being resolved in that way without conducting a mini trial on the documents without discovery and without oral evidence.
As Lord Woolf said in Swain v Hillman [[2001] 1 All ER 91], at p 95, that is not the object of the rule.
It is designed to deal with cases that are not fit for trial at all. 96.
In Wenlock v Moloney [1965] 1 WLR 1238 the plaintiffs claim of damages for conspiracy was struck out after a four day hearing on affidavits and documents.
Danckwerts LJ said of the inherent power of the court to strike out, at p 1244B C: this summary jurisdiction of the court was never intended to be exercised by a minute and protracted examination of the documents and facts of the case, in order to see whether the plaintiff really has a cause of action.
To do that is to usurp the position of the trial judge, and to produce a trial of the case in chambers, on affidavits only, without discovery and without oral evidence tested by cross examination in the ordinary way.
This seems to me to be an abuse of the inherent power of the court and not a proper exercise of that power.
The extent to which these well known warnings have been ignored in this litigation can be measured by the following statistics about the materials placed before this court.
The parties two written cases (ignoring annexes) ran to 294 pages.
The electronic bundles included 8,945 pages.
No less than 142 authorities were deployed, spread over 13 bundles, in relation to an appeal which, on final analysis