 parent company, owed a relevant duty of care.
He then identified in four short sub paragraphs the particular material which supported his view that the claimants case was arguable.
They included part of the published material, namely a report entitled Embedding Sustainability which, he said, stressed that the oversight of all Vedantas subsidiaries rested with the board of Vedanta itself, made particular reference to problems with discharges into water and to the particular problems arising at the Mine.
He relied upon the management services agreement between Vedanta and KCM to which I have referred, upon a decision of the Irish High Court about the group (Elmes v Vedanta Lisheen Mining Ltd [2014] IEHC 73) and upon the witness statement of Mr Kakengela.
He concluded by recognising the need for a cautious approach to the relevant evidence filed by KCMs principal witness Mr Ndulo, whose credibility he said had been subject to serious adverse comment (including a finding of dishonesty) by a Commercial Court judge in an earlier case: see U & M Mining Zambia Ltd v Konkola Copper Mines plc (No 3) [2014] EWHC 3250 (Comm).
For its part the Court of Appeal followed a broadly similar course, while reminding itself that the Chandler indicia were no more than examples, and making a slightly different selection from the voluminous evidence of those parts of Vedantas published statements indicative at least of an arguable case for having undertaken a sufficiently close intervention into the operation of the Mine to attract the requisite duty of care.
In my view the appellants primary submission under this heading, that the judge and the Court of Appeal failed to apply sufficient rigour to their analysis of the claimants pleadings and evidence on this question, fails in limine.
This was not a case of the assertion, for the first time, of a novel and controversial new category of case for the recognition of a common law duty of care, and it therefore required no added level of rigorous analysis beyond that appropriate to any summary judgment application in a relatively complex case.
Nor does the judges judgment disclose any lack of appropriate rigour.
The question as to triable issue as against Vedanta was one of a significantly larger number of contentious issues than those which have survived in this court.
The reason which the judge gave for the relative brevity of his analysis of the underlying materials in para 119 of his judgment said nothing about the depth and rigour of his own review of those materials.
He was merely seeking to explain why, in what was necessarily a long and detailed judgment, having formed a clear view that the case against Vedanta was arguable, it was unnecessary to burden his judgment with a lengthy and detailed description of his own analysis.
For the reasons I have already given, his legal analysis may have departed slightly from the ideal, but only in respects in which either he followed the parties joint invitation, or by imposing a straitjacket derived from the Chandler case which, if anything, increased rather than reduced the claimants burden in demonstrating a triable issue.
But in that respect those imperfections were largely cleared up by the Court of Appeal which, rightly in my view, recognised that they did not undermine the judges conclusion.
This court has, again, been taken at length through the relevant underlying materials.
For my part, if conducting the analysis afresh, I might have been less persuaded than were either the judge or the Court of Appeal by the management services agreement between the appellants, or by the evidence of Mr Kakengela.
But I regard the published materials in which Vedanta may fairly be said to have asserted its own assumption of responsibility for the maintenance of proper standards of environmental control over the activities of its subsidiaries, and in particular the operations at the Mine, and not merely to