 meeting the relevant test for imposition of a duty of care in respect of the parent.
He proceeded then to provide typical examples, which included this case, which had already by then been decided by the Court of Appeal.
Sales LJ thought that cases where the parent might incur a duty of care to third parties harmed by the activities of the subsidiary would usually fall into two basic types: (i) Where the parent has in substance taken over the management of the relevant activity of the subsidiary in place of or jointly with the subsidiarys own management; (ii) Where the parent has given relevant advice to the subsidiary about how it should manage a particular risk.
For my part, I would be reluctant to seek to shoehorn all cases of the parents liability into specific categories of that kind, helpful though they will no doubt often be for the purposes of analysis.
There is no limit to the models of management and control which may be put in place within a multinational group of companies.
At one end, the parent may be no more than a passive investor in separate businesses carried out by its various direct and indirect subsidiaries.
At the other extreme, the parent may carry out a thoroughgoing vertical reorganisation of the groups businesses so that they are, in management terms, carried on as if they were a single commercial undertaking, with boundaries of legal personality and ownership within the group becoming irrelevant, until the onset of insolvency, as happened within the Lehman Brothers group.
Mr Gibson sought to extract from the Unilever case and from HRH Emere Godwin Bebe Okpabi v Royal Dutch Shell plc [2018] EWCA Civ 191; [2018] Bus LR 1022, a general principle that a parent could never incur a duty of care in respect of the activities of a particular subsidiary merely by laying down group wide policies and guidelines, and expecting the management of each subsidiary to comply with them.
This is, he submitted, all that the evidence thus far deployed in the present case demonstrated about the Vedanta Group.
Again, I am not persuaded that there is any such reliable limiting principle.
Group guidelines about minimising the environmental impact of inherently dangerous activities, such as mining, may be shown to contain systemic errors which, when implemented as of course by a particular subsidiary, then cause harm to third parties.
In the Chandler case, the subsidiary inherited (by taking over a business formerly carried on by the parent) a system for the manufacture of asbestos which created an inherently unsafe system of work for its employees, because it was carried on in factory buildings with open sides, from which harmful asbestos dust could, and did, escape.
As a result, and after a full trial, the parent was found to have incurred a duty of care to the employees of its subsidiary, and the result would surely have been the same if the dust had escaped to neighbouring land where third parties worked, lived or enjoyed recreation.
It is difficult to see why the parents responsibility would have been diminished if the unsafe system of work, namely the manufacture of asbestos in open sided factories, had formed part of a group wide policy and had been applied by asbestos manufacturing subsidiaries around the world.
Even where group wide policies do not of themselves give rise to such a duty of care to third parties, they may do so if the parent does not merely proclaim them, but takes active steps, by training, supervision and enforcement, to see that they are implemented by relevant subsidiaries.
Similarly, it seems to me that the parent may incur the relevant responsibility to third parties if, in published materials, it holds itself out as exercising that degree of supervision and control of its subsidiaries, even if it does not in fact do so.
In such circumstances its very omission may constitute the abdication of a responsibility which it has publicly undertaken.
Once it is recognised that, for these