 proper place, even in cases where all the other connecting factors appeared to favour a foreign jurisdiction: see eg OJSC VTB Bank v Parline Ltd [2013] EWHC 3538 (Comm), per Leggatt J at para 16.
That is a fair description of the judges reasoning in the present case.
Having found that, looking at the matter as between the claimants and KCM, all the connecting factors pointed towards Zambia, the judge concluded that, factoring in the closely related claim against Vedanta, which he found as a matter of fact that the claimants were likely to pursue in England in any event, the risk of irreconcilable judgments arising from separate proceedings in different jurisdictions against each defendant was decisive in identifying England as the proper place: see paras 160 to 168.
He said that: The alternative two trials on opposite sides of the world on precisely the same facts and events is unthinkable.
It is obvious from his analysis (assuming that substantial justice could be obtained in Zambia) that, had the English court retained its jurisdiction to stay the proceedings as against Vedanta, as it was thought it did prior to Owusu v Jackson, the judge would have done so, and thereby ensured that the case was brought to trial against both defendants in Zambia.
The appellants submitted that the judges approach took insufficient account of the fact that the language of CPR 6.37(3) requires the court to be satisfied that England and Wales is the proper place in which to bring the claim, rather than the proper place for trial of the case as a whole.
By the claim it was submitted that the rule meant only the claim against the foreign defendant.
It is evident that, if the judge had confined himself to that analysis, he would have set aside service against KCM, subject to the substantial justice issue.
The appellants contrasted the wording of the predecessor rule, RSC Order 11 rule 4(2) which provided that: No such permission shall be granted unless it shall be made sufficiently to appear to the court that the case is a proper one for service out of the jurisdiction under this Order. (my emphasis)
I have not been persuaded that this change of language from the case to the claim was intended to effect any change in the previously clearly stated requirement for the court to consider the proper place for the case as a whole.
In particular, the phrase the claim is used in CPR Practice Direction 6B paragraph 3.1(3) in a way which suggests that the foreign defendant must be a necessary or proper party to that claim, which is the claim which has been or will be served on the anchor defendant.
I have however been much more troubled by the absence of any particular focus by the judge upon the fact that, in this case, the anchor defendant, Vedanta, had by the time of the hearing offered to submit to the jurisdiction of the Zambian courts, so that the whole case could be tried there.
This did not, of course, prevent the claimants from continuing against Vedanta in England, nor could it give rise to any basis for displacing article 4 as conferring a right to do so upon the claimants.
But it does lead to this consequence, namely that the reason why the parallel pursuit of a claim in England against Vedanta and in Zambia against KCM would give rise to a risk of irreconcilable judgments is because the claimants have chosen to exercise that right to continue against Vedanta in England, rather than because Zambia is not an available forum for the pursuit of the claim against both defendants.
In this case it is the claimants rather than the defendants who claim that the risk of irreconcilable judgments would be prejudicial to them.
Why (it may be asked) should