 a comprehensive reserved judgment, in October 2017 [2018] 1 WLR 3575.
The defendants further appeals to this court were heard, again over two full days, in January 2019.
Proportionality
It is necessary to say something at the outset about the disproportionate way in which these jurisdiction issues have been litigated.
In Spiliada Maritime Corpn v Cansulex Ltd (the Spiliada) [1987] AC 460, 465, Lord Templeman said this, about what was, even then, the disproportionate manner in which jurisdiction challenges were litigated: In the result, it seems to me that the solution of disputes about the relative merits of trial in England and trial abroad is pre eminently a matter for the trial judge.
Commercial Court judges are very experienced in these matters.
In nearly every case evidence is on affidavit by witnesses of acknowledged probity.
I hope that in future the judge will be allowed to study the evidence and refresh his memory of the speech of my noble and learned friend Lord Goff of Chieveley in this case in the quiet of his room without expense to the parties; that he will not be referred to other decisions on other facts; and that submissions will be measured in hours and not days.
An appeal should be rare and the appellate court should be slow to interfere.
That dictum is, in my mind equally applicable to all the judges in what are now the Business and Property Courts of England and Wales, including, as in this case, the Technology and Construction Court.
That requirement for proportionality, and for respect to be given to first instance decisions on jurisdiction, has been repeated, perhaps in less colourful terms, in numerous subsequent cases.
In VTB Capital plc v Nutritek International Corpn [2013] 2 AC 337, Lord Neuberger of Abbotsbury said this, at paras 82 to 83: 82.
The first point is that hearings concerning the issue of appropriate forum should not involve masses of documents, long witness statements, detailed analysis of the issues, and long argument.
It is self defeating if, in order to determine whether an action should proceed to trial in this jurisdiction, the parties prepare for and conduct a hearing which approaches the putative trial itself, in terms of effort, time and cost.
There is also a real danger that, if the hearing is an expensive and time consuming exercise, it will be used by a richer party to wear down a poorer party, or by a party with a weak case to prevent, or at least to discourage, a party with a strong case from enforcing its rights. 83.
Quite apart from this, it is simply disproportionate for parties to incur costs, often running to hundreds of thousands of pounds each, and to spend many days in court, on such a hearing.
The essentially relevant factors should, in the main at any rate, be capable of being identified relatively simply and, in many respects, uncontroversially.
There is little point in going into much detail: when determining such applications, the court can only form preliminary views on most of the relevant legal issues and cannot be anything like certain about which issues and what evidence will eventuate if the matter proceeds to trial.
At para 84 Lord Neuberger cited dicta to the same effect by Waller LJ in Cherney v Deripaska (No 2) [2010] 2 All ER (Comm) 456, para 7, in which he concluded that it would have been better for both parties and better use of court time if they had expended their money and their energy on fighting the merits of the claim.
Jurisdiction challenges frequently raise questions about whether the claim against one or more of the defendants raises a triable issue.
As it is