 change the underlying meaning in any way.
The best known fleshed out description of the concept is to be found in Lord Goff of Chieveleys famous speech in the Spiliada case, summarised much more recently by Lord Collins in the Altimo case at para 88 as follows: The task of the court is to identify the forum in which the case can be suitably tried for the interests of all the parties and for the ends of justice; That concept generally requires a summary examination of connecting factors between the case and one or more jurisdictions in which it could be litigated.
Those include matters of practical convenience such as accessibility to courts for parties and witnesses and the availability of a common language so as to minimise the expense and potential for distortion involved in translation of evidence.
Although they are important, they are not necessarily conclusive.
Connecting factors also include matters such as the system of law which will be applied to decide the issues, the place where the wrongful act or omission occurred and the place where the harm occurred.
Thus far, the search for these connecting factors gives rise to no difficult issues of principle, even though they may not all point in the same direction.
The problems thrown up by this appeal all arise from the combination of two factors.
The first is that the case involves multiple defendants domiciled in different jurisdictions.
The second is that, following Owusu v Jackson, the court is disabled from the exercise of its traditional common law power to stay the proceedings against the domiciled anchor defendant by reason of article 4: see paras 23 to 41 above.
There can be no doubt that, when Lord Goff originally formulated the concept quoted above, he would have regarded the phrase in which the case can be suitably tried for the interest of all the parties as referring to the case as a whole, and therefore as including the anchor defendant among the parties.
Although the persuasive burden was reversed, as between permission to serve out against the foreign defendant and the stay of proceedings against the anchor defendant, the court was addressing a single piece of multi defendant litigation and seeking to decide where it should, as a whole, be tried.
The concept behind the phrases the forum and the proper place is that the court is looking for a single jurisdiction in which the claims against all the defendants may most suitably be tried.
The Altimo case also involved multiple defendants.
Although it was decided after Owusu v Jackson, it concerned the international jurisdiction of the courts of the Isle of Man, so that the particular problems thrown up by this appeal did not arise.
An unspoken assumption behind that formulation of the concept of forum conveniens or proper place, may have been (prior to Owusu v Jackson) that a jurisdiction in which the claim simply could not be tried against some of the multiple defendants could not qualify as the proper place, because the consequence of trial there against only some of the defendants would risk multiplicity of proceedings about the same issues, and inconsistent judgments.
But the cases in which this risk has been expressly addressed tend to show that it is only one factor, albeit a very important factor indeed, in the evaluative task of identifying the proper place.
For example, in Socit Commerciale de Rassurance v Eras International Ltd (The Eras Eil Actions) [1992] 1 Lloyds Rep 570, Mustill LJ said this, at p 591: in practice the factors which make the party served a necessary or proper party will also weigh heavily in favour of granting leave to make the foreigner a party, although they will not be conclusive.
In cases where the court has found that, in practice, the claimants will in any event continue against the anchor defendant in England, the avoidance of irreconcilable judgments has frequently been found to be decisive in favour of England as the