This litigation arises from alleged toxic emissions from the Nchanga Copper Mine in the Chingola District of Zambia.
The claimants, who are the respondents to this appeal, are a group currently consisting of some 1,826 Zambian citizens who live in four communities within the Chingola District.
They are, by any standards, very poor members of rural farming communities served by watercourses which provide their only source of water for drinking (by themselves and their livestock) and irrigation for their crops.
They say that both their health and their farming activities have been damaged by repeated discharges of toxic matter from the Nchanga Copper Mine into those watercourses, from 2005 to date.
The Nchanga Copper Mine (the Mine) consists, in part, of an open cast mine, said to be the second largest in the world, and in part of a deep mine.
Its immediate owner is the second defendant Konkola Copper Mines plc (KCM), which is a public company incorporated in Zambia.
KCM is the largest private employer in Zambia, employing some 16,000 people, mainly at the Mine.
The first defendant Vedanta Resources plc (Vedanta) is the ultimate parent company of KCM.
It is the parent of a multinational group, listed on the London Stock Exchange, with interests in minerals, power, oil and gas in four continents.
Vedanta is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Although Vedanta claims only to have 19 employees of its own, eight of whom are its directors, the Vedanta Group employs some 82,000 people worldwide.
KCM is not a 100% subsidiary of Vedanta, since the Zambian government has a significant minority stake, but materials published by Vedanta state that its ultimate control of KCM is not thereby to be regarded as any less than it would be if wholly owned.
The claims against both defendants are pleaded in common law negligence and breach of statutory duty.
Those causes of action are pursued against KCM on the basis that it is the operator of the Mine.
As against Vedanta, the same causes of action are said to arise by reason of the very high level of control and direction that the first defendant exercised at all material times over the mining operations of the second defendant and its compliance with applicable health, safety and environmental standards: (Particulars of Claim, para 79).
This appeal is all (and only) about jurisdiction; that is, the jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales to determine those claims against both defendants.
As against Vedanta, the claimants rely upon article 4 of the Recast Brussels Regulation (Regulation (EU) 1215/2012 on Jurisdiction and the Recognition and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters).
As against KCM the claimants rely upon what may loosely be called the necessary or proper party gateway of the English procedural code for permitting service of proceedings out of the jurisdiction, now to be found mainly in para 3.1 of CPR Practice Direction 6B.
The procedural background to this appeal is, in outline, as follows.
The claimants issued the Claim Form in July 2015.
Vedanta was served within the jurisdiction.
Service was effected on KCM out of the jurisdiction pursuant to permission obtained on a without notice application on 19 August 2015.
Both Vedanta and KCM applied to challenge jurisdiction, in September and October 2015 respectively.
Their applications were heard together, over three days in April 2016, by Coulson J, who delivered a comprehensive reserved judgment dismissing them on 27 May 2016 [2016] EWHC 975 (TCC).
The defendants appeals were heard over two days in July 2017 and dismissed, again in