), large aspects of the claimants collective and individual claims will depend upon the presentation of expert evidence.
They will include identifying the emissions which actually occurred, and their toxicity, establishing whether the system of operation of the Mine (both in its planning and implementation) fell short of that requisite to satisfy a duty of care, tracing the emissions through to watercourses in the vicinity of the claimants, proving (during a considerable period of time) that these emissions caused damage to particular claimants land, business and health, and quantifying (save perhaps in relation to personal injuries) the diminution in the value of business and property thereby caused.
Much of that expert work will, from the perspective of the claimants legal team, have to be paid for as disbursements, but it will still need to be supervised by competent and experienced lawyers.
As is evident from the decision of the Supreme Court of Zambia in Nyasulu v Konkola Copper Mines plc [2015] ZMSC 33, it will be necessary for each individual claimant to prove both causation and loss, and to value their loss unless (which did not happen in that case and has not been volunteered here) KCM were to agree that issues of that kind could be determined either on the basis of typical claimants or by means of an out of court claims management process.
It is of course possible, indeed likely, that the litigation of all those issues in Zambia would, even if funding and the necessary legal resources were available, be undertaken on a simpler and more economical scale than would be likely if undertaken in the Technology and Construction Court by large, sophisticated legal teams, without necessarily depriving the claimants of substantial justice.
But the judge did not address this question by way of a comparison between litigation in England and in Zambia.
His enquiry was directed to the question whether the unavoidable scale and complexity of this case (wherever litigated) could be undertaken at all with the limited funding and legal resources which the evidence led him to conclude were available within Zambia.
His judgment does not therefore disclose the misdirection about the meaning of substantial justice which is suggested by the appellants.
Finally, the judges analysis positively demonstrates that he had due regard to considerations of comity and the requirement for cogent evidence.
He referred to the need for cogent evidence in express terms, at para 174.
He identified the evidence which he found persuasive and quoted from some of it.
Cogent evidence does not mean unchallenged evidence.
on grounds of comity.
At para 198 he said this: It is also evident that the judge was conscious of the need to exercise restraint I am conscious that some of the foregoing paragraphs could be seen as a criticism of the Zambian legal system.
I might even be accused of colonial condescension.
But that is not the intention or purpose of this part of the judgment.
I am not being asked to review the Zambian legal system.
I simply have to reach a conclusion on a specific issue, based on the evidence before me.
And it seems to me that, doing my best to assess that evidence, I am bound to conclude that the claimants would almost certainly not get access to justice if these claims were pursued in Zambia.
My conclusion that the judge did not misdirect himself in law in any of the respects contended for by the appellants is sufficient to dispose of this issue since, otherwise, the appellants case in relation to it is no more or less than a challenge to judicial fact finding.
But for completeness I will say something about what appeared to be the strongest point in the appellants challenge.
This was that the judge failed to have sufficient regard to the evidence constituted by a series of Zambian cases, comparable in differing extents to this case, in which groups of claimants had managed