 cases that they supported, rather than detracted from, a view that the Zambian legal profession lacked the resources and experience with which to conduct such litigation successfully.
As the Court of Appeal observed when affirming the judges decision on this issue, the appellants face formidable difficulties in asking any appellate court to overturn this detailed fact finding exercise, by an experienced judge who stated in terms (and there is no reason to doubt) that he had read all the relevant materials and carefully considered the detailed opposing arguments.
Nonetheless, and supported by a written intervention by the Attorney General of Zambia, the appellants mounted a full frontal attack on the judges conclusions which, they submitted, this court ought to entertain because of flaws in the judges application of the relevant law.
In outline, these were as follows: The judge failed to heed judicial warnings that funding issues will only i) in exceptional cases justify a finding of lack of substantial justice. ii) The judge failed to acknowledge that substantial justice required the claimants to take their forum as they found it. iii) The judge failed to pay due regard to considerations of comity, and a requirement for cogent evidence.
I will take those in turn.
There are indeed judicial warnings of undoubted authority that the English court should not in this context conclude, otherwise than in exceptional cases, that the absence of a means of funding litigation in the foreign jurisdiction, where such means are available in England, will lead to a real risk of the non availability of substantial justice: see Connelly v RTZ Corpn plc (No 2) [1998] AC 854, 873 per Lord Goff and Lubbe v Cape plc [2000] 1 WLR 1545, 1555 per Lord Bingham of Cornhill.
They were in fact both cases in which that hurdle of exceptionality was surmounted, in the first in relation to exposure to radiation at a uranium mine in Namibia and the second in relation to exposure to asbestos from mining and processing in South Africa.
The judge plainly had those considerations well in mind, since he regarded the Lubbe case as one of three authorities which set out the relevant law, and Lord Goffs dicta in the Connelly case are quoted in full by Lord Bingham in the Lubbe case.
Of course, a judge may cite all the relevant authorities and yet still misapply the law, but in this case the judge came nowhere near treating the absence of particular forms of litigation funding in Zambia, such as legal aid and CFAs, as conclusive.
He conducted a searching analysis of all possible forms of funding, and found that most were unavailable but that the one which was in principle available would not attract a legal team which was both prepared to act, and able to do so with the requisite resources and experience.
Although the judge did not refer to it expressly, the evidence included the possibility of funding cases of this kind, or the necessary underlying research, by contribution from locally based NGOs, but the absence of reference to a matter of detail in a judgment about an issue which the judge only dealt with for completeness comes nowhere near to demonstrating that he left this evidence out of account.
The gist of the appellants second point is that the judges denigration of the accessibility of substantial justice in Zambia was too heavily based upon a comparison between the relatively rudimentary way in which a case of this kind could be litigated in Zambia, and its likely elaborate treatment by well resourced legal teams (in particular on the claimants side) in England.
The judge plainly regarded this litigation as both complex and weighty.
As an experienced judge of the Technology and Construction Court his assessment deserves respect.
It is also in my view objectively justified.
In the absence of any admissions from the appellants which might serve to narrow the issues (and there are none