 may sue.
In Owusu v Jackson (Case C 281/02) [2005] QB 801 the Court of Justice held, contrary to earlier English jurisprudence, that this conferred a right on any claimant (regardless of their domicile) to sue an English domiciled defendant in England, free from jurisdictional challenge upon forum non conveniens grounds, even where the competing candidates for jurisdiction were England (part of a member state) and some other non member state such as, here, Zambia.
The decision related to article 2 of the earlier Convention on Jurisdiction and the Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters 1968, which was in identical terms to the present Recast Brussels Regulation.
This does not, of course, prevent any defendant from seeking to have a claim struck out as an abuse of process or as disclosing no reasonable cause of action, or from seeking reverse summary judgment upon the basis that the claim discloses no triable issue against that defendant.
Vedanta has not pursued a strike out or summary judgment application of that kind, but both it and KCM assert that the claimants pleaded case and supporting evidence disclose no real triable issue against Vedanta, because Vedanta cannot be shown to have done anything in relation to the operation of the Mine sufficient either to give rise to a common law duty of care in favour of the claimants, or a statutory liability as a participant in breaches of Zambian environmental protection, mining and public health legislation.
Vedanta was, it is said, merely an indirect owner of KCM, and no more than that.
Secondly, Vedanta maintains that, even if the pleaded claim discloses a triable issue against it, nonetheless the claim should be stayed as an abuse of EU law, because the claimants are using a claim against Vedanta in England purely as a vehicle for attracting English jurisdiction against their real target defendant, KCM, by means of the necessary or proper party gateway.
Both these submissions were rejected by the judge, and by the Court of Appeal, but are pursued here, with the requisite permission of this court.
Further, the appellants submit that the issue as to abuse of EU law deserves a reference to the Court of Justice.
The claimants invocation of English jurisdiction as against KCM depends, as already noted, upon the necessary or proper party gateway.
This forms a long established part of English private international law which, pursuant to article 6.1 of the Recast Brussels Regulation, is determinative of the jurisdiction of the English courts against a defendant, like KCM, not domiciled in a member state.
The necessary or proper party gateway long ante dates the Civil Procedure Rules but is now enshrined in Part 6 Practice Direction B para 3.1 as follows: The claimant may serve a claim form out of the jurisdiction with the permission of the court under rule 6.36 where (3) A claim is made against a person (the defendant) on whom the claim form has been or will be served (otherwise than in reliance on this paragraph) and there is between the claimant and the (a) defendant a real issue which it is reasonable for the court to try; and (b) the claimant wishes to serve the claim form on another person who is a necessary or proper party to that claim.
The express terms of the Practice Direction set out only part of what a claimant relying upon the necessary or proper party gateway must show.
It is common ground that, by reference to those terms and well settled authority, the claimant must demonstrate as follows: that the claims against the anchor defendant involve a real issue to be if so, that it is reasonable for the court to try that issue; that the foreign defendant is a necessary or proper party to the