th ed (2015), at para 2.304, that the answer is clear, and debate has moved on.
Of the same view are (now) the editors of Dicey, Morris & Collins on Conflict of Laws, 15th ed (2012), at para 12 020.
There are a small number of cases in the Court of Justice where either the Court or the Advocate General has addressed specifically the question of abuse of law in the context of the Recast Brussels Regulation and its predecessors.
They mainly concern the alleged abusive use of article 8.1 (formerly article 6.1) as a means of circumventing article 4 (formerly article 2).
Article 8.1 contains provision (in a much more mechanical form than the English forum conveniens doctrine) for a limited departure from article 4, by providing that: A person domiciled in a member state may also be sued: 1) Where he is one of a number of defendants, in the courts for the place where any one of them is domiciled, provided the claims are so closely connected that it is expedient to hear and determine them together to avoid the risk of irreconcilable judgments resulting from separate proceedings; It is therefore a limited form of necessary or proper party gateway out of the strictures of article 4.
When read with the enabling words of article 5, it gives the claimant a choice to sue an EU domiciled defendant in a member state other than that of its domicile in order to avoid the risk of irreconcilable judgments.
It is of no direct relevance in the present case because there is no co defendant to the claim against Vedanta domiciled in another member state.
Since article 8.1 is itself to be restrictively interpreted because it derogates from the primary rule of jurisdiction in article 4, it might be thought that the Court of Justice would liberally apply an abuse of law principle where it perceived that article 8 was being misused as a means of circumventing article 4.
Nonetheless the cases show that abuse of EU law has been restrictively interpreted, even in that context.
In Freeport plc v Arnoldsson (Case C 98/06) [2008] QB 634 the claimant sought to use article 6.1 of the Judgments Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 (the predecessor of article 8.1) as a means of invoking the jurisdiction of the Swedish courts over a claim against an English company, because a Swedish company was a co defendant.
One of the objections raised by the English defendant was that the claimant was making an abusive use of article 6.1, by joining the Swedish company as a vehicle for that purpose, so as to disable the primary rule (then in article 2) requiring the English company to be sued in England.
At para 66 of his opinion, Advocate General Mengozzi said that in order to disapply article 6.1 it would be necessary to show not merely that the claimant had joined the Swedish defendant for the sole object of removing one of those defendants from the courts of his own domicile but also that it would be necessary to show, not merely fraudulent or wrongful intent, but that the action bought against the defendant domiciled in the forum member state appears to be unfounded manifestly unfounded in all respects to the point of proving to be contrived or devoid of any real interest for the claimant.
Cartel Damage Claims (CDC) Hydrogen Peroxide SA v Akzo Nobel NV (Evonik Degussa GmbH intervening) (Case C 352/13) [2015] QB 906 was another case about an alleged abuse of article 6.1 in an international cartel case against