 that Vedanta was sued in England for the genuine purpose of obtaining damages, albeit that attracting English jurisdiction over KCM was an important contributor to that decision, was a finding of fact.
Although arrived at by a necessarily summary process which did not permit cross examination of the claimants witness evidence as to motive, it was well supported by evidence that the claimants risked finding, after obtaining judgment against KCM, that it was unable to pay the judgment debt.
The judges findings of fact on this issue were endorsed by the Court of Appeal (at para 38 per Simon LJ).
They were final findings, in the sense that those factual issues will not be revisited at any later stage in the proceedings.
It is contrary to the practice of this court to re open concurrent factual findings made in both the courts below.
To be fair, counsel for each of the appellants made no significant effort to do so.
basis that: a) b) Vedanta; but, c) one of the principal reasons (although not the sole reason) why the claimants sued Vedanta in England was so as to be able, by the use of article 4 and the necessary or proper party gateway in conjunction, to sue KCM in England as well. the claimants have pleaded a real triable issue against Vedanta; the claimants genuinely desire to obtain judgment for damages against
I therefore approach the legal analysis of this abuse of EU law issue on the
On that factual basis, I am satisfied, to the extent that the point is acte clair, that the EU principle of abuse of law does not avail the appellants.
The starting point is the need to recognise that, following Owusu v Jackson, what is now article 4.1 lays down the primary rule regulating the jurisdiction of each member state to entertain claims against persons domiciled in that state.
The Recast Brussels Regulation itself (like its predecessors) contains a number of express provisions which derogate from that primary rule.
As exceptions to it, they are all to be narrowly construed.
If, therefore, the Recast Brussels Regulation also contains (as it probably does) an implied exception from the otherwise automatic and mandatory effect of article 4, based upon abuse of EU law, then that is also an exception which is to be narrowly construed.
The centrality of article 4, as the basis of member states jurisdiction over their own domiciliaries, is laid down not only in Owusu v Jackson itself, but in a series of later authorities, and fully recognised by academic writers, even those who, prior to Owusu v Jackson, had taken the opposite view where the relevant competition between jurisdictions lay between a member state and a non member state.
Decisions of the Court of Justice which have re emphasised the centrality of article 4, and the need to construe any exceptions or derogations from it restrictively, include Melzer v MF Global UK Ltd (Case C 228/11) [2013] QB 1112, at paras 23 to 24 of the judgment.
Dicta in the English courts to the same effect include, in this court, A v A (Children: Habitual Residence) [2014] AC 1, per Lady Hale at para 31 and, more recently, AMT Futures Ltd v Marzillier, Dr Meier & Dr Guntner Rechtsanwaltsgesellschaft mbH [2018] AC 439, per Lord Hodge at para 13.
Distinguished academics who are (now) of the same view include Professor Adrian Briggs who in Private International Law in English Courts (2014), at para 4.362, concludes that, since Owusu, the ship has now sailed and in Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments, 6