 one hand tied behind its back because of its inability to stay the proceedings against the anchor defendant, but the other hand paralysed by the almost inevitable priority to be given to the risk of irreconcilable judgments, where claimants chose to exercise their right to continue against the anchor defendant in England.
After anxious consideration, I have come to the conclusion that Leggatt Js analysis of this point, followed by the judge, is wrong.
At the heart of it lies the proposition that, because a claimant has a right to sue the anchor defendant in England, there is no reason why the claimant should be expected or required to relinquish that right in order to avoid duplication of proceedings.
In my judgment, there is good reason why the claimants in the present case should have to make that choice, always assuming that substantial justice is available in Zambia (which is a necessary but hypothetical predicate for the whole of the analysis of this issue).
There is nothing in article 4 which can be interpreted as being intended to confer upon claimants a right to bring proceedings against an EU domiciliary in the member state of its domicile in such a way that avoids incurring the risk of irreconcilable judgments.
On the contrary, article 4 is, as was emphasised in Owusu v Jackson, blind to considerations of that kind.
The mitigation of that risk is available in a purely intra EU context under article 8.1 (where that risk is expressly recognised).
But it is unavailable where the related defendant is (as here) domiciled outside any of the member states.
Looking at the matter from an intra member states perspective, a person wishing to bring related claims against a number of defendants which, if litigated separately, would give rise to a risk of irreconcilable judgments, has a choice.
The claimant may bring separate proceedings against each related defendant in the member state of that defendants domicile, thereby incurring a risk of irreconcilable judgments.
Or the claimant may bring a single set of proceedings against all the defendants in the member state of the domicile of only one of them, so as to avoid that risk.
That choice is what article 8.1 expressly permits.
If the risk of irreconcilable judgments is one which, as in the present case, exists to the prejudice only of the claimants, I can see no possible reason why a right to sue in England under article 4 should not give rise to the same choice, where the alternative jurisdiction lies outside that of the member states, in a place where the claimant may sue all the defendants, not because of article 8.1, but because they are all prepared to submit to that jurisdiction.
The alternative view (as expressed by Leggatt J) that the right conferred by article 4 should not expose the claimants to the need to make such a choice would appear to convert the right conferred by article 4 to an altogether higher level of priority, where the alternative forum lies outside that of the member states, than it does where the alternative forum lies inside, under article 8.
In short, if the article 4 right is not a trump card for the purpose of avoiding irreconcilable judgments within the confines of the member states, why should it become a trump card outside those confines?
The recognition that claimants seeking to avail themselves of their article 4 rights to sue an anchor defendant are nonetheless exposed to a choice whether to do so at the risk of irreconcilable judgments, even in cases where article 8 is not available, but another proper, convenient or natural forum is available for the pursuit of the case against all the defendants is, to my mind, the answer to the conundrum posed in para 40 above.
It does not in any way bring into