 of such an agreement, the refusal of relief was justifiable under EU law.
The absence of such an agreement between the United Kingdom and Jersey at the time of Mrs Coulters death was, they submitted, conclusive in favour of their case on justification.
The Court of Appeal, in a judgment given by Arden LJ with which the other members of the court agreed, concluded that the availability of relief under section 23 of the Inheritance Tax Act could not, in conformity with EU law, be limited by the restriction imposed by the Dreyfus decision, but that it would be justified for section 23 to contain a right for HMRC to verify information about an overseas charity by means of a mutual assistance agreement: [2017] EWCA Civ 1584; [2018] 1 WLR 3013; [2018] STC 910, para 88.
That meant, they said, that the appeal must fail, since there was no such agreement in force between the United Kingdom and Jersey at the time of Mrs Coulters death.
In saying that, the court appears to have been anticipating its decision later in the judgment that, although section 23 contained no such right for HMRC to verify information by means of a mutual assistance agreement, such a right could be read into section 23 as a matter of judicial interpretation.
The court also reached its conclusion that the appeal must fail because of the absence of a mutual assistance agreement between the United Kingdom and Jersey at the time of Mrs Coulters death notwithstanding its finding (para 84) that HMRC had no need of a mutual assistance agreement in the present case: The position in this case is that the taxing authority does not need to verify any information.
HMRC do not seek any information from the appellants.
HMRC accept that the objects of the Coulter Trust are charitable for the purposes of UK law.
They do not suggest that the position was any different at the date of Ms Coulters death.
Likewise, HMRC do not suggest that the terms of the Coulter Trust would not be enforced in Jersey if there was any failure to apply the assets of the Coulter Trust for charitable purposes or that the position was any different at the date of Ms Coulters death.
Arden LJ had earlier noted (para 78) that a potential difficulty for the court was that there was no provision in section 23 of the Inheritance Tax Act requiring that a mutual assistance agreement must be in force.
She observed that Parliament could, in conformity with article 56, limit the relief under section 23 to cases in which the charity was based in an EU country or in a third country which had such an agreement with the United Kingdom.
It had not however done so.
Nevertheless, Arden LJ considered that such a requirement could be read into section 23 as a matter of interpretation, citing authority concerned with the application of section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998.
In her view, section 23 was to be interpreted as permitting relief to be given from inheritance tax: where the relevant charity both [satisfies] UK law requirements concerning a charity and [is] based in (a) an EU country or (b) a third country which [has] an information exchange agreement with the UK.
By satisfies UK law requirements was meant that the purposes of the charity are charitable according to UK law and that the charity is subject to the supervision of the courts in the country in which it is based.
Discussion
On its face, section 23 of the Inheritance Tax Act does not impose any restriction on the free movement of capital.
In particular, it does not discriminate between gifts to charities governed by the law of the United Kingdom and gifts to charities governed by the law of other EU member states