/EC. (2) Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms provides for Commission Decisions on equivalence of supervisory and regulatory regimes in third countries.
Commission Implementing Decision 2014/908/EU includes Jersey in the list of equivalent third countries and territories in Annexes I, IV and V. (3) The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD), Directive 2011/61/EU, regulates the management of unlisted investment funds, including hedge funds.
Managers established outside the EU are permitted to do business in the EU only if their jurisdictions are approved as having similar regulatory standards.
In July 2016 the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) advised the European Parliament that Jersey was one of 12 non EU countries which should be granted such approval (ESMA/2016/1138 and 1140).
Discussion
On behalf of HMRC Ms Bacon submits that the only case concerning free movement of capital in which the present issue was directly raised before the CJEU was X BV, because it concerned relations between a member state and a territory linked with that same member state, namely the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles.
In that case, however, the court declined to answer this particular question by deciding the case on the basis of the OCT Decision.
She nevertheless draws attention to the fact that before the Netherlands Supreme Court (Hoge Raad) made the reference to the CJEU, the Netherlands Court of Appeal had concluded that the movement of capital from the Netherlands to the Netherlands Antilles was an internal matter governed by domestic law, on the ground that the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles were part of the same international legal entity. (See the judgment of the CJEU at para 32.) Furthermore, in the Netherlands Supreme Court Advocate General Wattel had come to the same conclusion in his opinion (Case No 11/00483, conclusions of AG Wattel dated 23 December 2011).
As HMRC rightly accept, only limited weight can be put on the decision of the Netherlands Court of Appeal and the opinion of Advocate General Wattel in the national proceedings in X BV.
In the event, it was not necessary for the CJEU to decide the point and the actual decision has no direct application to Jersey as Jersey is not an OCT.
On the other hand, however, it seems to us that the clear explanation by Advocate General Jaaskinen (cited above at para 25) to the effect that movement of capital between the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles, two territories having a different status with regard to the applicability of EU law, is not a purely internal situation and that the Netherlands Antilles is to be considered as being in the same position in relation to the Netherlands as third countries, is entitled to considerable weight.
It is, nevertheless, a central plank of HMRCs case on this issue that a transaction between a member state and its own associated territory cannot be regarded as a transaction between a member state and a third country.
HMRC accept that a movement of capital from another member state to Jersey would be a transfer to a third country within article 56, but maintain that a transfer from a member state to its own associated territory should be regarded as a purely internal situation as in Jersey Produce and Gibraltar v Commission.
Here Ms Bacon draws particular attention to the close economic links between the United Kingdom and Jersey, one of the matters referred to by Advocate General Leger in Jersey Produce (at para 34, footnote 27), as accounting for the specific regime reserved to the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
She observes that, although Jersey is not in a formal currency union with the United Kingdom, there is de facto monetary union between the