Article 56 EC (now article 63 TFEU) provides: (1) Within the framework of the provisions set out in this chapter, all restrictions on the movement of capital between member states and between member states and third countries shall be prohibited. (2) Within the framework of the provisions set out in this chapter, all restrictions on payments between member states and between member states and third countries shall be prohibited.
It is common ground between the parties that whereas article 56 applies in the United Kingdom, it does not apply in Jersey, in the sense that Jersey is not required to comply with the provisions of article 56.
It is also common ground between the parties that article 56 applies to gifts to charities and that the limitation of tax relief on a gift to the Coulter Trust would, if article 56 were engaged, amount to a restriction on the free movement of capital.
Since Jersey is not a member state, the gift to the Coulter Trust was not a movement of capital between member states.
The issue therefore turns on whether Jersey is to be regarded as a third country for the purposes of article 56.
The status of Jersey in domestic constitutional law
The relationship between the Channel Islands (which include the Bailiwick of Jersey) and the United Kingdom in domestic constitutional law was considered in some detail in the judgment of Lady Hale in R (Barclay) v Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice (No 2) (Attorney General of Jersey intervening) [2014] UKSC 54; [2015] AC 276, paras 6 to 18.
The Channel Islands are not part of the United Kingdom and have never been British colonies or dependent territories.
They are Crown Dependencies which enjoy a unique relationship with the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth through the Crown in the person of the Sovereign.
The prerogative powers of the Crown as regards Jersey are exercised by Order in Council.
The Channel Islands were originally part of the Duchy of Normandy.
At the Norman conquest of England in 1066, the Duke of Normandy became the King of England.
When France took possession of continental Normandy in 1204, the Channel Islands retained their allegiance to the King of England.
By the Treaty of Paris, 1259 France relinquished any claim to the Channel Islands.
The Treaty of Calais, 1360 confirmed that the King of England shall have and hold all the islands which he now holds (Minquiers and Ecrehos case (France v United Kingdom), ICJ Reports 1953, pp 47, 54).
The relationship between the Channel Islands and the Crown has continued to observe the distinct laws and ancient customs of the Channel Islands which are rooted in Norman customary law.
Successive sovereigns have confirmed by Royal Charter privileges and liberties to Jersey including an independent judicature.
Jersey also has its own legislature.
Jersey is not an independent state in international law.
The United Kingdom Government is responsible for the international relations and the defence of the Channel Islands.
Under international law the United Kingdom Government has the power to extend to the Channel Islands the operation of a treaty which the United Kingdom has concluded.
The scope of application of EU law
Article 29 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, 23 May 1969, provides that unless a different intention appears from a treaty or is otherwise established, a treaty is binding upon each party in respect of its entire territory.
Article 299(1) EC (now article 355 TFEU) makes specific provision for the territorial scope of EU law.
It provides that the EC Treaty applies to the EU member states including the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
The remainder of article 299 then makes special provision for the extent to which EU law applies to