 Justice considered the status of the British Virgin Islands (the BVI) for the purposes of free movement of capital under article 56 EC (now article 63 TFEU).
The BVI are one of the OCTs for which provision is made in article 299(3) EC.
In a passage to which HMRC draw particular attention, Advocate General Cruz Villalon observed (at para 39): All of the foregoing confirms that there is no categorical answer to the question whether an OCT should be categorised as a member state or a third country, and instead the answer varies on a case by case basis according to the relevant legal framework and taking into careful consideration the objectives pursued by the special arrangements for association laid down in Part Four of the TFEU.
However, the Advocate General also drew attention (at para 66) to the lacuna which would result should free movement of capital not apply to the OCTs. [T]he free movement of capital laid down in article 63 TFEU must apply to OCTs, since otherwise there would be a paradox in that a freedom granted to third countries would be denied to territories with which the Union has special relations.
The Court of Justice in Prunus noted (at para 20) that in view of the unlimited territorial scope of article 56 EC, it must be regarded as necessarily applying to movements of capital to and from OCTs.
However, it considered that OCTs were to be treated as non member states for the purposes of free movement of capital. 28.
It is necessary to determine, first, whether, for the purposes of the application of the Treaty provisions on free movement of capital, OCTs are to be treated as member states or non member states. 29.
The court has already held that the OCTs are subject to the special association arrangements set out in Part Four of the Treaty, with the result that, failing express reference, the general provisions of the Treaty, whose territorial scope is in principle confined to the member states, do not apply to them OCTs therefore benefit from the provisions of European Union law in a similar manner to the member states only when European Union law expressly provides that OCTs and member states are to be treated in such a manner. 30.
It should be noted that the EU and FEU Treaties do not contain any express reference to movements of capital between member states and OCTs.
It follows that OCTs benefit from the liberalisation of 31. the movement of capital provided for in article 63 TFEU in their capacity as non member states.
Joined Cases C 24/12 and C 27/12 X BV v Staatssecretaris van Financin [2014] STC 2394 concerned dividends paid by companies incorporated in the Netherlands to companies incorporated in the Netherlands Antilles which had been subjected to a dividend tax in the Netherlands.
The Netherlands court requested a preliminary ruling on whether the EU rules on free movement of capital were to be interpreted as precluding a measure of a member state which was likely to hinder movements of capital between that member state and its own overseas countries and territories.
Council Decision 2001/822 EC on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the European Community (the OCT Decision), which came into effect in its current form in 2001, made specific provision for free movement of capital between member states and OCTs. (The OCT Decision was not applicable in Prunus because the transaction in that case had occurred in 1998.) Article 47 stated that restrictions on payment and on movements of capital were prohibited between the EU and OCTs.
Article 55(2) of the OCT Decision provided that nothing in the OCT Decision was to be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement of any measure aimed at preventing the avoidance of