 Alan Steinfeld QC submits that it is a movement of capital between a member state and a third country on the basis that Jersey is to be regarded as a third country for the purposes of article 56.
That submission was accepted by the Court of Appeal (Lord Briggs, Arden LJ and Green J) in the present case ([2017] EWCA Civ 1584; [2018] 1 WLR 3013).
HMRC submit that this is incorrect and that a movement of capital between the United Kingdom and Jersey should be regarded as a transaction internal to a single member state, the United Kingdom.
Ms Kelyn Bacon QC, on behalf of HMRC, submits that since Jersey is not a state with its own legal personality, it cannot formally have the status of a third country.
It is, instead, a European territory for which the United Kingdom is responsible.
While the EU has treated Jersey as having third country status for some specific purposes (see, for example, Decision 2008/393/EU on the adequate protection of personal data in Jersey [2008] OJ L 138/21, recital (5)), there is no categorical answer to the question whether it should be classified as a member state or a third country.
Rather, the answer varies on a case by case basis according to the relevant legal framework and taking account of the objectives pursued by the Treaty arrangements for the territory in question.
She submits that the question that has not yet been answered by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) is whether, in respect of a European territory such as Jersey in which the Treaty provisions on the free movement of capital do not apply, a flow of capital between that territory and its own associated member state should also be regarded as a transaction between a member state and a third country, in other words whether it can be considered a third country as against its own member state.
She submits that the fact that Jersey is a European territory for whose external relations the United Kingdom is responsible indicates that a movement of capital between the United Kingdom and Jersey should be regarded as an internal transaction taking place within a single member state, in the same way that a movement of capital between London and Edinburgh would be an internal transaction.
She accepts, however, that the resolution of this issue is not acte clair and accordingly submits that if it is necessary for this court to decide this issue it should make a preliminary reference to the CJEU.
Her Majestys Attorney General for Jersey (the Attorney General) has intervened in the proceedings.
On his behalf, Mr Conrad McDonnell submits that the effect of article 299 is that Jersey is a part of the EU for the purposes only of those provisions of EU law which are expressly specified as having effect there, with the result that it must be treated for such purposes as a part of a member state, namely the United Kingdom.
He submits, however, that Jersey is not part of the EU for the purposes of those provisions of EU law which, by virtue of article 299, do not have effect there and that, as it is not otherwise part of a member state, it must in this context be considered a third country.
Mr McDonnell accepts that article 299 does not expressly state that where and to the extent that provisions of the EC Treaty apply to an overseas territory (article 299(3)) or to a European territory (article 299(4) (6)) that territory is to be treated as part of one of the member states for such purposes.
However, he submits that it is only in this way that article 299 can be effective since the relevant substantive provisions of EU law make provision only for the rights of citizens of one of the member states, or for transactions between two member states, or transactions between a member state