 Acts as follows: charity means a body of persons or trust established for charitable purposes only.
Reading section 23(1) and (6) of the Inheritance Tax Act together with section 989 of the Income Tax Act, it follows that transfers of value are exempt to the extent that the values transferred by them are attributable to property which (a) becomes the property of a body of persons or trust established for charitable purposes only, or (b) is held on trust for charitable purposes only.
Those alternatives have been described in these proceedings as the two limbs of section 23(6).
On the face of these provisions, the Coulter Trust would appear to qualify for relief.
Its purposes are charitable purposes under English law.
It is irrelevant under the legislation that those purposes are to be carried out outside the United Kingdom.
There is nothing on the face of any of the provisions which confines the scope of the relief to trusts which are governed by the law of a part of the United Kingdom and are subject to the jurisdiction of courts in the United Kingdom.
However, in Camille & Henry Dreyfus Foundation Inc v Inland Revenue Comrs [1956] AC 39, a case decided long before the United Kingdoms entry into the EEC, it was held by the House of Lords that the phrase trust established for charitable purposes only, in section 37 of the Income Tax Act 1918, must be interpreted as being implicitly limited to trusts which were governed by the law of some part of the United Kingdom and were subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United Kingdom.
Since the same phrase appears in the definition of charity in section 989 of the Income Tax Act, and section 272 of the Inheritance Tax Act requires charity and charitable to be given the same meaning in that Act as in the Income Tax Acts, the Court of Appeal concluded that the gloss placed in Dreyfus on the language now found in section 989 of the Income Tax Act was also incorporated, by means of section 272 of the Inheritance Tax Act, into section 23 of that Act.
Accordingly, relief under section 23 was available only to trusts which were governed by the law of some part of the United Kingdom and were subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United Kingdom.
The court rejected the appellants argument that a distinction should be drawn in that regard between the first and second limbs of section 23(6).
It followed that the Coulter Trust, being established under and governed by the law of Jersey, was not a charity within the meaning of section 989 of the Income Tax Act, and that Mrs Coulters will did not effect a gift of property to a charity within the meaning of section 23(1) of the Inheritance Tax Act.
At the first hearing of the appeal, the Court of Appeal allowed the grounds of appeal to be amended so as to raise for the first time arguments based on EU law, which were then considered at a second hearing before Arden and Briggs LJJ and Green J.
At that hearing, HMRC accepted that the domestic interpretation of section 23 arrived at following the first hearing, reflecting the construction placed on the definition of charity for income tax purposes in the Dreyfus case, violated the principle of freedom of movement of capital.
However, they argued that the refusal of relief in the present case was nevertheless justified under EU law, since they had to be able to confirm that a claimant for relief under section 23 was carrying out charitable objects, and for that purpose had to be able to enforce the co operation of official channels in the country where the claimant was based.
They submitted that it was therefore necessary for there to be a mutual assistance agreement in force between the United Kingdom and the country in question.
In the absence