 taxes pursuant to the tax provisions of domestic fiscal legislation.
In the course of his opinion, Advocate General Jaaskinen observed (at para 48): Thus, movements of capital between the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles, in other words two territories having a different status with regard to the applicability of EU law, do not represent a purely internal situation.
Therefore, article 56(1) EC is applicable and the Netherlands Antilles has to be considered as being in the same position in relation to the Netherlands as third countries.
The Court of Justice held (at paras 52 54) that the tax measure fell within article 55(2) of the OCT Decision and, as a result, there was no need to examine to what extent the rules of EU law applicable to the relations between the EU and OCTs apply between a member state and its own OCT.
R (The Gibraltar Betting and Gaming Association Ltd) v Revenue and Customs Comrs (Government of Gibraltar intervening) (Case C 591/15) EC:EU:C:2017:449; [2017] 4 WLR 167; [2017] STC 1300 concerned a new tax regime which required gambling service providers to pay gaming duty in respect of services provided to UK persons regardless of whether the gambling service provider was located in the United Kingdom or in another country.
The claimant association, whose members were primarily Gibraltar based gambling operators, brought proceedings for judicial review in the High Court of Justice maintaining that these were extra territorial taxes which constituted an obstacle to freedom to provide services and which discriminated against service providers situated outside the United Kingdom and accordingly were incompatible with article 56 TFEU on freedom to provide services.
The High Court made a preliminary reference to the CJEU.
That court considered that the first question referred asked essentially whether article 355(3) TFEU (formerly article 299(4) EC) is to be interpreted as meaning that the provision of services by operators established in Gibraltar to persons established in the United Kingdom constitutes, under EU law, a situation confined in all respects within a single member state.
As we have seen, Gibraltar is the converse of Jersey in that, whereas only Community rules on free movement of goods apply in Jersey, Community rules with the exception of rules on free movement of goods apply in Gibraltar.
In Gibraltar Betting Advocate General Szpunar concluded that the United Kingdom and Gibraltar are to be considered as a single member state for the purposes of the application of the Treaty rules on freedom to provide services.
In his opinion he carried out a survey of the earlier authorities.
He explained (at paras 43 45) the observation of Advocate General Jacobs in Department of Health and Social Security v Barr and Montrose Holdings (Case C 355/89) [1991] ECR I 3479 that the movement of workers between the United Kingdom and the Isle of Man was not wholly internal to a member state, on the ground that article 2 of Protocol 3 to the Act of Accession provided that Community rules on free movement of workers do not apply to the Isle of Man.
It was therefore logical that, for the purposes of those rules, the situation between the United Kingdom and the Isle of Man was not a purely internal one.
He referred with approval (at para 35) to the conclusion of Advocate General Tizzano in Commission v United Kingdom that Gibraltar must be considered as a third country for the purposes of the Community provisions on movement of goods.
With regard to Jersey Produce he contrasted the situations of Gibraltar and Jersey and observed that in the case of Jersey article 355(5)(c) TFEU (formerly article 299(6)(c) EC) constituted a lex specialis in relation to article 355(3) TFEU (