 United Kingdom. 39.
That said, it should be recalled that article 355(3) TFEU extends the applicability of the provisions of EU law to the territory of Gibraltar, subject to the exclusions expressly provided for in the 1972 Act of Accession, which do not, however, cover freedom to provide services. 40.
Furthermore, the fact, relied on by the Government of Gibraltar, that article 56 TFEU is applicable to Gibraltar, by virtue of article 355(3) TFEU, and to the United Kingdom, by virtue of article 52(1) TEU, is irrelevant in that regard.
In an analogous context, the fact that EU rules on customs matters and quantitative restrictions apply to the Channel Islands and to the Isle of Man, pursuant to article 1(1) of Protocol No 3 annexed to the 1972 Act of Accession, and to the United Kingdom, pursuant to article 52(1) TEU, has not prevented the court from concluding that, for the purposes of the application of those rules, those islands and the United Kingdom are to be treated as a single member state (judgment of 8 November 2005, Jersey Produce Marketing Organisation , para 54). 41.
In the second place, there is no other factor that could justify the conclusion that relations between Gibraltar and the United Kingdom may be regarded, for the purposes of article 56 TFEU, as akin to those existing between two member states. 42.
To treat trade between Gibraltar and the United Kingdom in the same way as trade between member states would be tantamount to denying the connection, recognised in article 355(3) TFEU, between that territory and that member state.
It is common ground in that regard that it is the United Kingdom that has assumed obligations towards the other member states under the Treaties so far as the application and transposition of EU law in the territory of Gibraltar is concerned (see, in that regard, judgments of 23 September 2003, Commission v United Kingdom (Case C 30/01) EU:C:2003:489, paras 1 and 47, and 21 July 2005, Commission v United Kingdom (Case C 349/03) EU:C:2005:488, para 56), as the Advocate General observed in point 37 of his Opinion. 43.
It follows that the provision of services by operators established in Gibraltar to persons established in the United Kingdom constitutes, under EU law, a situation confined in all respects within a single member state.
The position of the European Commission
On behalf of the Attorney General, Mr McDonnell also draws our attention to the current practice of the European Commission which, he submits, demonstrates that the Commission treats Jersey as a third country for all purposes other than those connected with the Common Customs Area.
He refers to three examples. (1) EU Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data provides in article 25 that restrictions apply to the transfer of personal data out of the EU to third countries, unless those third countries are found by the Commission to have adequate data protection standards.
Commission Decision 2008/393/EC of 8 May 2008 provides that Jersey meets these standards.
Paragraph 5 of the Preamble states: The Bailiwick of Jersey is one of the dependencies of the British Crown (being neither part of the United Kingdom nor a colony) that enjoys full independence, except for international relations and defence which are the responsibility of the United Kingdom Government.
The Bailiwick of Jersey is therefore to be considered as a third country within the meaning of Directive 95/46