 a number of countries and territories which have links with EU member states.
Article 299(3) provides: The special arrangements for association set out in Part Four of this Treaty shall apply to the overseas countries and territories listed in Annex II to this Treaty.
This Treaty shall not apply to those overseas countries and territories having special relations with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland which are not included in the aforementioned list.
Annex II currently lists 21 territories as overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
The list does not include the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
Article 299(4) provides: The provisions of this Treaty shall apply to the European territories for whose external relations a member state is responsible.
Article 299(6) makes express provision for the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs: (c) this Treaty shall apply to the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man only to the extent necessary to ensure the implementation of the arrangements for those islands set out in the Treaty concerning the accession of new member states to the European Economic Community and to the European Atomic Energy Community signed on 22 January 1972.
Further provision is made in additional treaties, such as the various treaties of accession, to give effect to article 299 in each specific case.
In the case of the Channel Islands, Protocol 3 to the Treaty of Accession, 22 January 1972 sets out the arrangements for those islands.
Article 1(1) provides: The Community rules on customs matters and quantitative restrictions, in particular those of the Act of Accession, shall apply to the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man under the same conditions as they apply to the United Kingdom.
In particular, customs duties and charges having equivalent effect between those territories and the Community, as originally constituted and between those territories and the new member states, shall be progressively reduced in accordance with the timetable laid down in articles 32 and 36 of the Act of Accession.
The Common Customs Tariff and the ECSC unified tariff shall be progressively applied in accordance with the timetable laid down in articles 39 and 59 of the Act of Accession, and account being taken of articles 109, 110 and 119 of that Act.
The reference to quantitative restrictions is to restrictions on the free movement of goods.
Article 1(2) makes specific provision in respect of agricultural products and products processed therefrom.
Article 3 applies the provisions of the Euratom Treaty to the Channel Islands.
The effect of article 6 is that EU rules on free movement of persons within the EU do not apply to Channel Islanders unless they have at any time been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom for five years or have a British parent or grandparent.
The combined effect of article 299(6) EC and Protocol 3 to the Act of Accession is that the rules of EU law relating to the common customs area, including the free movement of goods, apply in Jersey (Jersey Produce Marketing Organisation Ltd v States of Jersey (Case C 293/02) [2006] 1 CMLR 29 (Jersey Produce)).
However, save to the extent stated in Protocol 3, other rules of EU law do not apply in Jersey.
In particular, EU rules on free movement of capital do not apply in Jersey. (The current EU provisions on the free movement of capital (ie article 56 EC, now article 63 TFEU) were only introduced in the Maastricht Treaty which entered into force in 1994.)
The submissions of the parties
Article 56 EC will be engaged if the movement of capital between the United Kingdom and Jersey is a movement of capital between member states or between a member state and a third country.
On behalf of the appellants, Mr