 United Kingdom and Jersey.
Jersey has a currency board arrangement with sterling.
As part of the background, reference is also made to the fact that the Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development (OECD) Convention was extended to Jersey by the United Kingdom on 20 July 1990 and that the OECD Codes of Liberalisation of Capital Movements and Current Invisible Operations apply to Jersey.
Similarly, the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters of the OECD and the Council of Europe, signed in Strasbourg on 25 January 1988, entered into force in respect of Jersey on 1 June 2014.
In this regard, HMRC also rely on the reasoning of the CJEU in Jersey Produce cited at para 7 above.
HMRC submit that the Court of Justice there advanced two reasons for its conclusion.
One was the wording of article 1 of Protocol No 3 to the Treaty of Accession, referred to in paras 46 and 47.
The other was the more general point, stated at para 45, that relations between the Channel Islands and the United Kingdom cannot be regarded as similar to those between two member states.
Both of these reasons, it is submitted, are then picked up at para 54 as leading to the conclusion that the Channel Islands and the United Kingdom must be treated for this purpose as one member state.
Ms Bacon submits that para 45 in itself would be sufficient to support the conclusion and draws attention to the fact that the Court of Justice in Gibraltar Betting at para 37 referred to both aspects of Jersey Produce.
We are unable to accept this submission.
In our view, the Court of Justice at para 45 is simply setting the context within which the Treaty provisions operate and this general statement lacks the degree of specificity which would be required to provide an independent basis of decision.
The decision is clearly founded on the notion that Community rules on free movement of goods apply to Jersey with the result that it is, for that purpose, to be treated as part of the United Kingdom.
The decisions of the Court of Justice in this area provide a systematic and consistent approach to resolving issues such as the present.
The question whether a territory is to be regarded as a third country is context specific and will depend on whether, under the relevant Treaty of Accession and supplementary measures, the relevant provisions of EU law apply to that territory.
The proximity of the ties between a member state and the territory in question is not a factor justifying departure from that scheme.
Thus, the reasoning of the Court of Justice in Van der Kooy and in Commission v United Kingdom is consistent with and supportive of the Attorney Generals submission.
Similarly, the observation of Advocate General Jaaskinen in X BV (at para 48) that the Netherlands Antilles should be treated as a third country is entirely in accord with this approach.
In each case, the transaction was not regarded as internal to the member state concerned because the relevant rule of EU law did not apply in the associated territory.
That was the case notwithstanding the fact that the territory was associated with the member state in question.
Conversely, in Jersey Produce the Community rules on free movement of goods applied in Jersey with the result that it was, for that purpose, to be treated as part of the United Kingdom.
In the same way, in Gibraltar Betting Community rules on free movement of services applied both in the United Kingdom and to Gibraltar with the result that the provision of services by operators established in Gibraltar to persons established in the United Kingdom was a situation confined within a single member state.
As Mr McDonnell put it in his submissions on behalf of the Attorney General, the CJEU has determined that for the purposes of the Treaty provisions which apply in those territories, they should be treated as part of the European Union, but for the purposes of the Treaty