 and a third country.
He submits, furthermore, that this is borne out by the logic of the decisions of the CJEU on the territorial scope of the EC Treaty.
The jurisprudence of the CJEU
It is necessary to consider in some detail the relevant decisions of the Court of Justice on the territorial scope of the EC Treaty.
On close examination they can be seen to reveal a clear and consistent approach.
In particular, the question whether a territory is to be regarded as a third country is context specific and will depend on whether, under the relevant Treaty of Accession and supplementary measures, the relevant provisions of EU law apply to that territory.
Van Der Kooy v Staaatssecretaris van Financien (Case C 181/97) [1999] ECR I 483 concerned the entry into the Netherlands of the motor vessel Joshua from the Netherlands Antilles.
At the relevant date article 227 of the EC Treaty (the predecessor of article 299 EC, considered above) defined the area of application of the Treaty by a list of member states which included the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
The Netherlands Antilles form part of the Netherlands but, by way of derogation from article 227, had been added to the list of OCTs referred to in article 227(3), to which the general provisions of the Treaty did not apply.
The national proceedings raised the question whether the entry of the vessel into the Netherlands was an intra Community transaction in which case it would not have been subject to Value Added Tax under the Sixth Directive.
Advocate General Ruiz Jarabo Colomer considered that the Sixth Directive did not allow the entry of goods from an OCT to be classified as an intra Community transaction.
It was to be treated as an import.
In his view: Those countries and territories, which fall neither within the Community customs area nor within the scope of the Treaty subject to the provisions applicable under the special Association rules in article 226(3) do not constitute the territory of a member state for the purposes of applying VAT.
That conclusion, moreover, is consistent with the scheme of the Sixth Directive: if even certain national territories to which the Treaty is, in principle, applicable, are regarded for VAT purposes as third territories, a fortiori the same view must be taken of the OCT, whose links with the Treaty, as such, are less strong than those of the third territories. (at paras 36, 37) The Court of Justice agreed.
Under the special arrangements applicable to the OCTs, including the Netherlands Antilles, in the absence of express reference the general provisions of the Treaty did not apply to the OCTs.
Consequently, the entry into a member state of goods coming from the Netherlands Antilles cannot be categorised as an intra Community transaction for the purposes of the Sixth Directive, unless a special provision so prescribes. (para 38)
A similar conclusion was drawn in Commission of the European Communities v United Kingdom (Case C 30/01) [2003] ECR I 9481.
Under article 299(4) EC, the Treaty applies to Gibraltar as it is a Crown Colony for whose external relations the United Kingdom is responsible.
However, the UK Act of Accession provided that certain Treaty provisions did not apply in Gibraltar.
In particular, Gibraltar was excluded from the customs territory of the Community.
In this case, brought by the Commission supported by Spain, the United Kingdom established that the exclusion of Gibraltar from the customs territory of the Community necessarily implied that neither the Treaty rules on free movement of goods nor the rules of secondary Community legislation intended, as regards the free circulation of goods, to ensure approximation of the laws of the member states, were applicable in Gibraltar.
As a result, therefore, the status of Gibraltar is, in a sense, the converse