 of that of the Channel Islands.
Whereas EU law generally applies in Gibraltar, EU law on free movement of goods does not.
For the purposes of the present appeal, the observation of Advocate General Tizzano (at para 62) that Gibraltar must be considered as a third country for the purposes of the Community provisions on movement of goods is worthy of note.
By contrast, in the Jersey Produce case the CJEU held that Jersey was to be treated as if it were a part of the United Kingdom for the purposes of the application of specific Treaty provisions concerning the free movement of goods.
Proceedings before the Royal Court of Jersey concerned the compatibility with Community law of the Jersey Potato Export Marketing Scheme Act 2001.
The Royal Court made a preliminary reference to the Court of Justice which addressed the question whether the territory of the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man can be treated as the territory of a single member state for the purposes of the application of Community rules on free movement of goods.
The reasoning of the Court of Justice was as follows: 45.
It is appropriate, first of all, to recall that the court has previously stated that, just as the distinction between Channel Islanders and other citizens of the United Kingdom cannot be likened to the difference in nationality between the nationals of two member states, neither, because of other aspects of the status of those Islands, can relations between the Channel Islands and the United Kingdom be regarded as similar to those between two member states (Pereira Roque, cited above, at paras 41 and 42).
It must be observed, next, that it is stated in article 1(1) 46. of Protocol No 3 that the Community rules on customs matters and quantitative restrictions are to apply to the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man under the same conditions as they apply to the United Kingdom. 47.
Such wording suggests that, for the purposes of the application of those Community rules, the United Kingdom and the Islands are, as a rule, to be regarded as a single member state. 48.
The same is true of the statement in the first subparagraph of article 1(2) of Protocol No 3, which refers to the levies and other import measures laid down in Community rules and applicable by the United Kingdom.
The court then noted that such a construction of article 1 of Protocol 3 had also been applied by the Community legislature, before concluding: 54.
It is clear from all the preceding points that, for the purposes of the application of articles 23 EC, 25 EC, 28 EC and 29 EC, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the United Kingdom must be treated as one member state.
The passage at para 45 echoes the conclusion of the Court of Justice in Pereira Roque v Lieutenant Governor of Jersey (Case C 171/96) EU:C:1998:368; [1998] 3 CMLR 143, paras 42 43, a case on free movement of persons.
In that case the court held that article 4 of Protocol 3 to the Act of Accession did not prohibit a difference of treatment resulting from the fact that a national of another member state could be deported from Jersey under national legislation, notwithstanding that nationals of the United Kingdom were not liable to deportation.
It was in that context that the court held that, as Channel Islanders were British nationals, the distinction between them and other citizens of the United Kingdom could not be likened to the difference in nationality between the nationals of two member states.
In Prunus SARL v Directeur des services fiscaux (Case C 384/09) [2011] I ECR 3319; [2011] STC 1392 the Court of