 provisions which do not apply in those territories, they should be treated as third countries.
In our view the decision of the Court of Justice in Prunus is determinative of the present issue before this court.
In that case, which pre dated the OCT Decision which made specific provision for free movement of capital between member states and OCTs, the Court of Justice held that for the purposes of the free movement of capital the BVI were to be treated as non member states. (Here, the court clearly regarded the terms non member states and third countries as synonymous.
It explained at para 20 of its judgment that article 56 EC, which prohibits all restrictions on the movement of capital between member states and between member states and third countries, has unlimited territorial scope and must be regarded as necessarily applying to movements of capital to and from OCTs.) For the reasons stated above, that decision is not distinguishable on the ground that the BVI are not associated with France.
In this way, as Advocate General Villalon observed in respect of OCTs in Prunus at para 39, the answer varies on a case by case basis according to the relevant legal framework and taking into consideration the objectives pursued by the special arrangements for association.
In the present case it is clear that, as the EU rules on free movement of capital do not apply in Jersey, Jersey is to be considered a third country for the purpose of a transfer of capital from the United Kingdom.
Capital has moved from a member state where article 56 applies to a territory where it does not and that cannot be considered a purely internal situation.
Accordingly, we would decline to make a preliminary reference on this point to the CJEU.
(2) Whether the refusal of relief is justifiable under EU law
Since EU rules on the free movement of capital apply to transfers of capital between the United Kingdom and Jersey, and it is accepted, as explained at para 6 above, that the refusal of relief under section 23 of the Inheritance Tax Act to the Coulter Trust constitutes a restriction on such free movement, the remaining question is whether the restriction is justifiable under EU law.
The Court of Appeal concluded that it was, following two hearings before differently constituted panels.
At the first hearing, before Moore Bick, Tomlinson and Kitchin LJJ, the court considered the construction of section 23 as a matter of domestic law, leaving aside the effect of EU law, and concluded that in order to qualify for relief the trust under which property was held for charitable purposes must be governed by the law of some part of the United Kingdom and be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United Kingdom: [2016] EWCA Civ 938; [2017] PTSR 73; [2016] STC 2218.
In so holding, the court upheld the decision of Rose J: [2014] EWHC 3010 (Ch); [2015] STC 451.
It is necessary to explain the basis on which the Court of Appeal arrived at that interpretation of section 23.
So far as material, section 23 is in the following terms: (1) Transfers of value are exempt to the extent that the values transferred by them are attributable to property which is given to charities. (6) For the purposes of this section (a) property is given to charities if it becomes the property of charities or is held on trust for charitable purposes only; and donor shall be construed accordingly.
Section 272 of the Inheritance Tax Act, as it stood at the relevant time, provided that: Charity and charitable have the same meanings as in the Income Tax Acts.
Section 989 of the Income Tax Act 2007 (the Income Tax Act) defined charity for the purposes of the Income Tax