The appellants in this case are the executors of Mrs Beryl Coulter, who died in Jersey on 9 October 2007, leaving her residuary estate on trust for purposes which are agreed to be exclusively charitable under English law.
The appellants were appointed under Mrs Coulters will as the trustees.
They were domiciled in Jersey, and the proper law of the trust (the Coulter Trust) was specified in the will as the law of Jersey.
The estate included assets in the United Kingdom amounting to 1.7m.
At the time of Mrs Coulters death, there was in force a treaty between the United Kingdom and Jersey which included provision for the exchange of information relating to income tax.
In 2009 a further treaty (the United Kingdom/Jersey Tax Information Exchange Agreement) came into force, which included provision for the exchange of information relating to inheritance tax.
On 1 October 2010 the appellants retired as trustees (but not as executors) and were replaced by a UK resident trustee.
On 12 October 2010 the will was amended so as to make the proper law of the trust the law of England and Wales.
On 14 February 2014 the Coulter Trust was registered as a charity under the law of England and Wales.
Section 23 of the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 (the Inheritance Tax Act) provides for an exemption from inheritance tax in respect of gifts to charities.
On 29 May 2013 the respondents, Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC), determined that Mrs Coulters gift of her residuary estate to the Coulter Trust did not qualify for relief under section 23, as it had not been given to a charity within the meaning of that provision.
That conclusion was based on the fact that the Coulter Trust was governed by the law of Jersey as at the date of Mrs Coulters death, and on a construction of section 23 which limited relief to trusts governed by the law of a part of the United Kingdom.
On the basis that Jersey was not a part of the United Kingdom for the purposes of section 23, it followed that relief was not available.
The amount of inheritance tax due, if relief is not available, is about 567,000.
The appellants have appealed against that determination on the basis that it is incompatible with article 56 of the Treaty Establishing the European Community (EC), now article 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
As we shall explain, that provision prohibits restrictions on the free movement of capital between EU member states, and between member states and third countries.
HMRCs primary response is that article 56 has no application to the facts of this case, on the basis that, although Jersey is not a part of the United Kingdom for the purposes of section 23, a movement of capital between the United Kingdom and Jersey should be regarded as an internal transaction taking place within a single member state.
HMRC further argue that the restriction resulting from the adverse treatment of the Coulter Trust is in any event justifiable under EU law, in view of the fact that there was no mutual assistance agreement covering inheritance tax in force between the United Kingdom and Jersey at the date of Mrs Coulters death.
The principal issues arising in the appeal are: (1) whether Jersey forms part of the United Kingdom for the purposes of article 56 EC, and, if not, (2) whether the refusal of relief under section 23 of the Inheritance Tax Act in respect of Mrs Coulters gift of her residuary estate to the Coulter Trust is justifiable under EU law. (1) The status of Jersey for the purpose of EU law relating to free movement of
capital
