 or third countries.
It is, on its face, entirely compliant with article 56 EC.
That is so even if section 272 of the Inheritance Tax Act and section 989 of the Income Tax Act are taken into account, since those provisions, on their face, are equally non discriminatory.
The only relevant restriction which existed at any material time, and with which this appeal is concerned, is the restriction imposed by the judicial gloss which was placed on the words now found in section 989 of the Income Tax Act in the case of Dreyfus: a restriction which, when incorporated into section 23 of the Inheritance Tax Act, has the effect of confining relief under that provision to trusts governed by the law of a part of the United Kingdom and subject to the jurisdiction of United Kingdom courts.
There can be no doubt that the Dreyfus gloss on the language of section 989 of the Income Tax Act, as applied to section 23, is incompatible with article 56 EC.
It is plain that the restriction of relief from inheritance tax to trusts governed by the law of a part of the United Kingdom cannot be justified under EU law.
Article 56 EC is directly applicable as law in the United Kingdom, and must be given effect in priority to inconsistent national law, whether judicial or legislative in origin.
It follows that the Dreyfus gloss on the language of section 989 of the Income Tax Act cannot be applied to section 23 in situations falling within the scope of article 56.
The resultant position is as set out in para 49 above: applying section 23 without incorporating the Dreyfus gloss, there is no relevant restriction on the availability of relief beyond the conditions appearing on the face of the provision.
That result is in conformity with article 56.
Since it is undisputed that the Coulter Trust satisfied those conditions at the relevant time, it follows that it qualifies for the relief.
That is the conclusion which the Court of Appeal should have reached, once it had decided that the Dreyfus gloss on the language of section 989 of the Income Tax Act, if incorporated into section 23 of the Inheritance Tax Act, imposed a restriction which was incompatible with article 56.
Having reached that decision, the court could not apply that entirely judge made restriction, and therefore had to apply section 23 without the gloss placed on the language used in section 989 of the Income Tax Act in the Dreyfus case.
It would then have arrived at a result which complied with article 56.
With great respect to the Court of Appeal, it should not have concerned itself with a hypothetical restriction concerned with the existence of mutual assistance agreements, even if it considered that such a restriction might have been justifiable under EU law and might have been imposed by Parliament.
The fact was that there was no such restriction in existence.
Neither section 23 of the Inheritance Tax Act nor section 989 of the Income Tax Act made relief for trusts in third countries conditional on there being a mutual assistance agreement in place.
The fact that such a restriction, if it had existed, might have been in conformity with EU law did not mean that it could be imposed by the court, by means of a purported interpretation of the language used in section 23.
Having reached the conclusion that section 23 of the Inheritance Tax Act can be brought into conformity with article 56 by disapplying the Dreyfus gloss on the meaning of the words contained in section 989 of the Income Tax Act, and that, having done so, the gift to the Coulter Trust qualifies for relief under section 23, it is unnecessary for this court to decide the other issues in dispute between the parties: in particular, whether the Court of Appeal was correct to hold that the Drey