 at issue, those courts are best placed to adjudicate upon the disputes falling to them by reason of a particularly close link between those disputes and that member state: the BVG case, para 36. 31.
Thus, the essential objective pursued by article 22(2) of Regulation No 44/2001 is that of centralising jurisdiction in order to avoid conflicting judgments being given as regards the existence of a company or as regards the validity of the decisions of its organs: Hassetts case [2008] ECR I 7403, para 20. 32.
The courts of the member state in which the company has its seat appear to be those best placed to deal with such disputes, inter alia because it is in that state that information about the company will have been notified and made public.
Exclusive jurisdiction is thus attributed to those courts in the interests of the sound administration of justice: Hassetts case, para 21. lidosta Rga VAS 33.
However, the court has held that it cannot be inferred from this that, in order for article 22(2) of Regulation No 44/2001 to apply, it is sufficient that a legal action involve some link with a decision adopted by an organ of a company (Hassetts case, para 22), and that the scope of that provision covers only disputes in which a party is challenging the validity of a decision of an organ of a company under the company law applicable or the provisions of its article of association governing the functioning of its organs: Hassetts case, para 26 and flyLAL Lithuanian Airlines AS (in liquidation) v Starptautisk (Case C 302/13) EU:C:2014:2319; [2014] 5 CMLR 1277, para 40. 34.
In the present case, while it is true that, under Czech law, proceedings such as those at issue in the main proceedings may not lead formally to a decision which has the effect of invalidating a resolution of the general assembly of a company concerning the compulsory transfer of the minority shareholders shares in that company to the majority shareholder, the fact none the less remains that, in accordance with the requirements of the autonomous interpretation and uniform application of the provisions of Regulation No 44/2001, the scope of article 22(2) thereof cannot depend on the choices made in national law by member states or vary depending on them. 35.
On the one hand, the origin of those proceedings lies in a challenge to the amount of the consideration relating to such a transfer and, on the other, their purpose is to secure a review of the reasonableness of that amount. 36.
It follows that, having regard to article 22(2) of Regulation No 44/2001, legal proceedings such as those at issue in the main proceedings concern the review of the partial validity of a decision of an organ of a company and that such proceedings are, as a result, capable of coming within the scope of that provision, as envisaged by its wording. 37.
Thus, in those circumstances, a court hearing such an application for review must examine the validity of a decision of an organ of a company in so far as that decision concerns the determination of the amount of the consideration, decide whether that amount is reasonable and, where necessary, annul that decision in that respect and determine a different amount of consideration. 38.
Furthermore, an interpretation of article 22(2) of Regulation No 44/2001 according to which that provision applies to proceedings such as those at issue in the main proceedings is consistent with the essential objective pursued by that provision and does not have the effect of extending its scope beyond what is required