 resolution of Koza Ltd pursuant to which the two A shares were issued.
In turn, Mr Ipek and Koza Ltd issued an application to strike out the acknowledgment of service, Koza Altins Defence and Counterclaim and all other steps taken by Mishcon de Reya LLP purportedly on behalf of Koza Altin in the proceedings, on the basis that the authority of those who had caused Koza Altin to take these steps should not be recognised in this jurisdiction.
The application of Koza Altin and the trustees to challenge jurisdiction was heard by Asplin J in December 2016.
Their position was that (i) the English courts have no jurisdiction under article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation over the trustees in relation to any part of the claims; (ii) the English courts do have jurisdiction under that provision over Koza Altin in respect of the English company law claim, which relates to the affairs of Koza Ltd; and (iii) the English courts have no jurisdiction under that provision over Koza Altin in respect of the authority claim, which relates to the conduct of the business of Koza Altin.
Asplin J dismissed the application by order made on 17 January 2017.
It was common ground that the English company law claim fell within article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation so that the English courts had jurisdiction in relation to it and in the judges assessment the authority claim was inextricably linked with that claim, which she considered was the principal subject matter of the proceedings viewed as a whole.
Koza Altin and the trustees appealed on the grounds that Asplin J had erred in holding that article 24(2) conferred jurisdiction on the English courts to determine the authority claim and had erred in holding that article 24(2) conferred jurisdiction on the English courts to determine any of the claims against the trustees.
The Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal.
Like Asplin J, it held that the authority claim is inextricably linked with the English company law claim and it held that article 24(2) required the court to form an overall evaluative judgment as to what the proceedings are principally concerned with, which in this case is a challenge to the ability of Koza Altin to act as a shareholder of Koza Ltd in relation to Koza Ltds internal affairs (see, in particular, paras 45 46 and 49 51).
That was so even if certain parts of the relief sought, if viewed in isolation, appeared to go further than that, in that they related to the validity of decisions taken by the organs of Koza Altin.
In the view of the Court of Appeal, therefore, by virtue of article 24(2) the English courts have jurisdiction in relation to the authority claim as well as in relation to the English company law claim.
In addition, the Court of Appeal dismissed a distinct submission for the trustees that the English courts have no jurisdiction in relation to them under article 24(2), based on the fact that they are not necessary parties in the proceedings.
Despite the court accepting that they are not necessary parties, it held that jurisdiction was established under article 24(2) in relation to the trustees because the subject matter of the proceedings involving them remained the same and the rationale of avoiding conflicting decisions in relation to the same subject matter applied, as did the rationale of ensuring that the proceedings are tried in the courts best placed to do so (paras 52 54).
The trustees and Koza Altin now appeal with permission granted by this court.
They submit that in holding that the English courts have jurisdiction under article 24(2) in relation to the authority claim, which is concerned with the validity of decisions of the