.
The authority claim likewise can be brought and made good on its own terms without any need to get into the merits of the English company law claim.
Assessing the authority claim as a distinct set of proceedings, clearly their principal subject matter does not comprise the validity of the decisions of the organs of a company which has its seat in England.
In fact, it is clear that their principal subject matter comprises the validity of the decisions of the organs of a company which has its seat in another country, so that if Koza Altin had had its seat in Greece (as a hypothesis to test the validity of the respondents submissions) then, far from allocating exclusive jurisdiction to the English courts, article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation would have allocated exclusive jurisdiction to the Greek courts.
It would not be tenable to suggest that the English courts had exclusive jurisdiction under article 24(2) in such a case.
This analysis fits with and is supported by the scheme and underlying objectives of the Recast Regulation.
First, in such a hypothetical case, Koza Altin might have had subsidiaries in several EU member states all of which might potentially have been affected by actions taken by the trustees on its behalf as occurred with the decision to send the notices concerning Koza Ltd in the present case.
The relevant issues regarding the validity of the decisions of the trustees acting on behalf, and as an organ, of Koza Altin would fall to be assessed in the light of circumstances in the place of its seat and would be governed by the law of that place (in the hypothetical example, Greece), which would indicate clearly that it should be sued there.
Secondly, requiring that Koza Altin and the trustees should be sued in the jurisdiction where it had its seat would ensure that one single authoritative judgment from the courts there would resolve the relevant disputes affecting subsidiary companies in all the other member states without any risk of inconsistent judgments based on evidence of Greek law (in the hypothetical example) being produced by the courts of each of those other member states.
These two points reflect the primary reasons for the introduction of what is now article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation in the 1968 Brussels Convention on Jurisdiction and the Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters, as set out in the report dated 27 September 1968 on that Convention by Mr P Jenard.
Mr Jenard explained the reasons for providing for exclusive jurisdiction in the form of what is now article 24(2) as follows: It is important, in the interests of legal certainty, to avoid conflicting judgments being given as regards the existence of a company or association or as regards the validity of the decisions of its organs.
For this reason, it is obviously preferable that all proceedings should take place in the courts of the state in which the company or association has its seat.
It is in that state that information about the company or
association will have been notified and made public
These reasons underlying what is now article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation have been treated by the Court of Justice as significant factors relevant to the interpretation of that provision.
The Court of Justice emphasised the importance of arriving at an interpretation of the provision so as to avoid the risk of inconsistent decisions in its judgment in the Hassett case at para 20 and again in its judgment in the BVG case at para 40.
In the Hassett judgment at para 21 the court drew on Mr Jenards report to explain that it is the courts of the member state in which the company has its seat which are regarded as best placed to deal with disputes regarding the validity of decisions of its organs, inter alia because it is in that state that information about the company will have been notified and made public, hence [e]xclusive jurisdiction is