 to insurance; section 4 with jurisdiction over consumer contracts; and section 5 with jurisdiction over individual contracts of employment.
Section 6 comprises article 24, dealing with cases of exclusive jurisdiction.
Section 7, comprising articles 25 and 26, deals with prorogation of jurisdiction.
I set out here the full text of article 24: The following courts of a member state shall have exclusive jurisdiction, regardless of the domicile of the parties: (1) in proceedings which have as their object rights in rem in immovable property or tenancies of immovable property, the courts of the member state in which the property is situated.
However, in proceedings which have as their object tenancies of immovable property concluded for temporary private use for a maximum period of six consecutive months, the courts of the member state in which the defendant is domiciled shall also have jurisdiction, provided that the tenant is a natural person and that the landlord and the tenant are domiciled in the same member state; (2) in proceedings which have as their object the validity of the constitution, the nullity or the dissolution of companies or other legal persons or associations of natural or legal persons, or the validity of the decisions of their organs, the courts of the member state in which the company, legal person or association has its seat.
In order to determine that seat, the court shall apply its rules of private international law; (3) in proceedings which have as their object the validity of entries in public registers, the courts of the member state in which the register is kept; in proceedings concerned with the registration or (4) validity of patents, trademarks, designs, or other similar rights required to be deposited or registered, irrespective of whether the issue is raised by way of an action or as a defence, the courts of the member state in which the deposit or registration has been applied for, has taken place or is under the terms of an instrument of the Union or an international convention deemed to have taken place.
Without prejudice to the jurisdiction of the European Patent Office under the Convention on the Grant of European Patents, signed at Munich on 5 October 1973, the courts of each member state shall have exclusive jurisdiction in proceedings concerned with the registration or validity of any European patent granted for that member state; (5) in proceedings concerned with the enforcement of judgments, the courts of the member state in which the judgment has been or is to be enforced.
Article 25 provides in material part as follows: If the parties, regardless of their domicile, have agreed 1. that a court or the courts of a member state are to have jurisdiction to settle any disputes which have arisen or which may arise in connection with a particular legal relationship, that court or those courts shall have jurisdiction, unless the agreement is null and void as to its substantive validity under the law of that member state.
Such jurisdiction shall be exclusive unless the parties have agreed otherwise. 3.
The court or courts of a member state on which a trust instrument has conferred jurisdiction shall have exclusive jurisdiction in any proceedings brought against a settlor, trustee or beneficiary, if relations between those persons or their rights or obligations under the trust are involved. 4.
Agreements or provisions of a trust instrument conferring jurisdiction shall have no legal force if they are contrary to articles 15, 19 or 23, or if the courts whose jurisdiction they purport to exclude have exclusive jurisdiction by virtue of article 24. 1.
Apart from jurisdiction derived from other provisions of this Regulation, a court of a member state before which a defendant enters an appearance shall have jurisdiction.
This rule shall not apply where appearance was entered to contest the jurisdiction, or where another court has exclusive jurisdiction by virtue of article 24.
Article 26(1) provides:
These provisions indicate the