 could not be said that the principal subject matter of the proceedings comprised the validity of the decisions of [BVGs] organs as would be required if article 22(2) was to have any application (para 44 of the judgment).
This point deserves emphasis, in light of the very different way in which the Court of Appeal in the present proceedings sought to draw guidance from the BVG case.
Relying on the judgment in that case, the Court of Appeal held that article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation required the court to form an overall evaluative judgment as to what the proceedings are principally concerned with (para 46).
But this approach had the effect of expanding the application of article 24(2) (ex article 22(2) of Regulation No 44/2001), contrary to the guidance in the Hassett case and the BVG case, rather than narrowing its application, as the Court of Justice had been at pains to do in its judgments in those cases.
According to the Court of Appeal, article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation is to be read as having the effect of allowing a party which is able to bring one claim within that article (the English company law claim) to add on another claim (the authority claim) which is conceptually distinct and is not inextricably bound up with the former claim, so that the latter claim is to be taken to fall within the scope of article 24(2) as regards the jurisdiction of the English courts as well.
In my view, Mr Crow QC for Koza Altin and the trustees was right to criticise this step in the Court of Appeals analysis as an illegitimate reversal of the approach indicated in the judgment of the Court of Justice in the BVG case.
Putting it another way, an evaluative assessment of proceedings relating to a specific claim, taken as a whole, may show that a particular aspect of the claim which involves an assessment of the validity of the decisions of a companys organs is so bound up with other features of the claim that it cannot be said that this is the principal subject matter of those proceedings, as would be required to bring the proceedings within the scope of article 24(2).
This was the effect of the ruling of the Court of Justice in the BVG case.
It does not follow from this that one can say the reverse, namely that where there are two distinct claims one, taken by itself, falling within article 24(2) as regards the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts and the other, taken by itself, not falling within article 24(2) as regards such jurisdiction it is legitimate to maintain that by virtue of an overall evaluative judgment in relation to both claims taken together the second claim should be found also to fall within article 24(2) so that the English courts have exclusive jurisdiction in relation to it.
In this sort of situation, it is the guidance in paras 22 25 of the Hassett judgment which is relevant, to the effect that a mere link between a claim which engages article 24(2) and one which does not is not sufficient to bring the latter within the scope of that provision.
In the present case the English company law claim and the authority claim can be said to be connected in a certain sense, but they are distinct claims which are not inextricably bound up together.
Koza Altin is a shareholder in Koza Ltd and may act as such.
The issue, so far as the authority claim is concerned, is whether it has done so validly, acting by relevant organs authorised according to the law of its seat.
The English company law claim can be brought and made good on its own terms without any need to get into the merits of the authority claim