 attributed to those courts in the interests of the sound administration of justice.
The interpretation of article 24(2) above is further supported by the judgment of the Court of Justice in Schmidt v Schmidt (Case C 417/15) EU:C:2016:881; [2017] I L Pr 6.
That case concerned the ground of exclusive jurisdiction set out in article 24(1) of the Recast Regulation, as regards rights in rem in immovable property.
In reliance on article 24(1) the claimant brought proceedings in Austria seeking rescission of a gift of land located there and, in consequence, an order for rectification of the Austrian land register.
The Court of Justice held that whilst the latter aspect of the proceedings fell within article 24(1), the rescission claim did not.
The court rejected the claimants contention that since there was plainly a link between the two claims, the whole proceedings should be regarded as falling within article 24(1) (paras 33 to 43).
Contrary to that contention, article 24(1) had to be read narrowly and with a precise focus on each distinct claim in the proceedings to which it was said to apply.
This was in line with the opinion of the Advocate General, in particular at paras 47 to 49.
At para 48 of her opinion, Advocate General Kokott said that as article 24 is an exception to the general principles underlying the Recast Regulation, the provision is to be interpreted narrowly, and the concept of proceedings restricted to the claim that specifically has as its object a right in rem.
The approach of the Advocate General and of the court is not compatible with the overall classification approach to the application of article 24(2) adopted by the Court of Appeal in the present case, according to which it concluded that the provision was applicable to the authority claim by reason of its being linked with the English company law claim.
The Court of Justice has recently reviewed the position regarding the interpretation and application of article 22(2) of Regulation No 44/2001, the predecessor of article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation, in EON Czech Holding AG v Ddouch (Case C 560/16) EU:C:2018:167; [2018] 4 WLR 94.
The case concerned a resolution by the general meeting of a Czech company to transfer all the securities in the company, including minority shareholdings, to its principal shareholder, the defendant, a German company.
The minority shareholders brought proceedings in the Czech courts seeking to review the reasonableness of the consideration for their shares set by that resolution.
Under Czech law, a ruling that the consideration was unreasonable would not result in the resolution being declared invalid (but presumably could result in an order that additional consideration should be paid).
The defendant raised a jurisdictional objection in those proceedings, maintaining that by reason of its seat the German courts alone had jurisdiction.
The Czech Supreme Court referred to the Court of Justice the question whether the Czech courts had exclusive jurisdiction in relation to the dispute by virtue of article 22(2) of Regulation No 44/2001.
The Court of Justice answered that question in the affirmative.
It reiterated and emphasised the key points which had emerged from its previous jurisprudence.
The relevant passage merits being set out in full: 26.
As regards the general scheme and context of Regulation No 44/2001, it should be recalled that the jurisdiction provided for in article 2 of that Regulation, namely that the courts of the member state in which the defendant is domiciled are to have jurisdiction, constitutes the general rule.
It is only by way of derogation from that general rule that the Regulation provides for special and exclusive rules of