 priority given under the scheme of the Recast Regulation to the jurisdiction of the courts of a member state which have exclusive jurisdiction under article 24.
The cases of exclusive jurisdiction within article 24 comprise situations where reasons exist to recognise an especially strong and fixed connection between the subject matter of a dispute and the courts of a particular member state.
For the cases falling within article 24, the principle of exclusive jurisdiction cuts across and takes priority over the other principles underlying the Recast Regulation, including the principle of jurisdiction for the courts of the member state where the defendant is domiciled and the principle of respect for party autonomy referred to in recital (19) and reflected in various provisions of the Regulation.
The priority given to the jurisdiction of a member state within article 24 is underlined by departures from other general rules set out in the Recast Regulation.
In particular, in section 8 of Chapter II, entitled Examination as to jurisdiction and admissibility, article 27 provides for an exception to the usual rule in section 9 of Chapter II that it is the courts in a member state which are first seised with a matter which shall have jurisdiction in relation to it, so that the courts of other member states should decline jurisdiction accordingly.
Article 27 provides: Where a court of a member state is seised of a claim which is principally concerned with a matter over which the courts of another member state have exclusive jurisdiction by virtue of article 24, it shall declare of its own motion that it has no jurisdiction.
Also, in Chapter III, in section 3 (entitled Refusal of recognition and enforcement), article 45(1)(e) provides that the recognition of a judgment shall be refused if the judgment conflicts with Section 6 of Chapter II (ie with the provision for exclusive jurisdiction contained in article 24) and article 46 states that enforcement of a judgment shall be refused in cases falling within article 45.
Discussion Issue (i): claim
The application of article 24(2) in relation to the authority
Since article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation is a provision which creates exclusive jurisdiction for the courts of a member state in the circumstances specified, its proper interpretation can be tested on the hypothesis that Turkey stands in the position of a member state.
If Koza Altin were a company which had its seat in a member state, say Greece, article 24(2) would apply to allocate exclusive jurisdiction in relation to the authority claim either to Greece or to England.
They could not both have exclusive jurisdiction under the Recast Regulation, since that would be contrary to the very idea of the jurisdiction being exclusive.
The interpretation of article 24(2) does not change in the present case just because the other state in question (Turkey) happens not to be a member state.
The position in relation to article 24(2) is to be contrasted with that in relation to the general rule of jurisdiction in article 4 and the provisions contained in section 2 of Chapter II of the Recast Regulation.
Under article 4 and those provisions, it is quite possible that the courts of two or more member states might have jurisdiction in relation to the same claim.
This causes no difficulty under the scheme of the Recast Regulation.
In all such cases it is the priority rules in section 9 of Chapter II which determine the jurisdiction where the claim should proceed, which generally depends on which court is first seised.
But as noted above, those rules are disapplied where a claim falls within the exclusive jurisdiction provision in article 24.
Accordingly, it is clear from the scheme of the Regulation that the interpretation and application of that provision cannot depend on the type of evaluative judgment in relation to which different courts could reasonably take different views.
In principle, there should be