 organs of Koza Altin, a Turkish company, the Court of Appeal has given that provision an impermissibly wide interpretation.
On proper construction of article 24(2), it is the courts of Turkey which have the relevant close connection with the authority claim and the English courts could not be regarded as having relevant (putatively exclusive) jurisdiction under that provision in relation to that claim.
The issues on the appeal are (i) whether article 24(2) confers jurisdiction on the English courts to determine the authority claim as against Koza Altin and (ii) whether article 24(2) confers exclusive jurisdiction on the English courts to determine either the authority claim or the English company law claim as against the trustees.
Each side maintains that the proper interpretation of article 24(2) is acte clair in their favour, but if it is not then a reference to the Court of Justice of the European Union is sought.
The Recast Regulation
The Recast Regulation is intended to lay down common rules governing jurisdiction assumed by member states.
Insofar as relevant for present purposes, the basic scheme is encapsulated as relevant for present purposes in recitals (13) (16) and (19): (13) There must be a connection between proceedings to which this Regulation applies and the territory of the member states.
Accordingly, common rules of jurisdiction should, in principle, apply when the defendant is domiciled in a member state. (14) A defendant not domiciled in a member state should in general be subject to the national rules of jurisdiction applicable in the territory of the member state of the court seised.
However, in order to ensure the protection of consumers and employees, to safeguard the jurisdiction of the courts of the member states in situations where they have exclusive jurisdiction and to respect the autonomy of the parties, certain rules of jurisdiction in this Regulation should apply regardless of the defendants domicile. (15) The rules of jurisdiction should be highly predictable and founded on the principle that jurisdiction is generally based on the defendants domicile.
Jurisdiction should always be available on this ground save in a few well defined situations in which the subject matter of the dispute or the autonomy of the parties warrants a different connecting factor.
The domicile of a legal person must be defined autonomously so as to make the common rules more transparent and avoid conflicts of jurisdiction. (16) In addition to the defendants domicile, there should be alternative grounds of jurisdiction based on a close connection between the court and the action or in order to facilitate the sound administration of justice.
The existence of a close connection should ensure legal certainty and avoid the possibility of the defendant being sued in a court of a member state which he could not reasonably have foreseen (19) The autonomy of the parties to a contract, other than an insurance, consumer or employment contract, where only limited autonomy to determine the courts having jurisdiction is allowed, should be respected subject to the exclusive grounds of jurisdiction laid down in this Regulation.
The scheme for allocation of jurisdiction under the Recast Regulation, therefore, is that persons domiciled in a member state should generally be sued in that member state (article 4), but pursuant to article 5 may also be sued in the courts of another member state in certain cases specified in sections 2 to 7 of Chapter II of the Recast Regulation.
Section 2 is entitled Special jurisdiction.
Within it, article 7 sets out rules applicable in particular kinds of case, including contract, tort, unjust enrichment and certain other cases; and article 8 provides, among other things, that a person domiciled in a member state who is one of a number of related defendants may be sued in the courts of the place where any one of them is domiciled, provided the claims are closely connected.
Section 3 deals with jurisdiction in matters relating