 only one correct application of article 24 in relation to a given claim.
This tells strongly against the broad evaluative approach to the interpretation and application of article 24(2) adopted by the courts below.
As stated in recital (15) of the Recast Regulation, the objective of the Regulation is to set out rules governing the allocation of jurisdiction which are highly predictable.
The desirability of having clear rules for allocation of jurisdiction is obvious, since parties who wish to bring claims and to defend them need to have a clear idea of which courts have jurisdiction so that they can decide how to proceed effectively and so as to minimise costs.
Also, rules which are highly predictable in their effects serve the purpose of enabling different courts to determine with a minimum of effort whether they have jurisdiction in respect of any given claim.
As is clear from the recitals and scheme of the Recast Regulation, a further objective of the regime is to avoid inconsistent judgments on the same issue being produced by the courts of different member states.
The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (the Court of Justice, formerly called the European Court of Justice) regarding the interpretation of article 24 has reached an advanced stage.
In my view it shows clearly that the interpretation of article 24(2) adopted by the courts below in these proceedings cannot be sustained.
An important early judgment was given in Hassett v South Eastern Health Board (Case C 372/07) [2008] ECR I 7403 regarding article 22(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, the predecessor of article 24(2) in the Recast Regulation.
In proceedings in Ireland relating to a medical negligence claim against the Health Board, two doctors who had been involved in the incident in question were joined in a claim for contribution brought by the Health Board.
The doctors in turn sought an indemnity or contribution from the Medical Defence Union in England (the MDU), of which they were members, to which they claimed they had an entitlement under the MDUs articles of association.
The MDUs board decided to reject their claim, so the doctors sought to join the MDU in the Irish proceedings to claim in those proceedings the indemnity or contribution to which they maintained they were entitled.
The MDU resisted this on the basis that the doctors claim concerned the validity of the boards decision and so fell within article 22(2), with the result that the English courts had exclusive jurisdiction in relation to that claim.
This issue was referred to the Court of Justice, which disagreed with the MDU.
The court held that article 22(2) had to be interpreted strictly (that is to say, narrowly), since it was an exception to the general rule of jurisdiction under the Regulation based on domicile, and that it should not be given an interpretation broader than is required by [its] objective (paras 18 19); accordingly, the provision must be interpreted as covering only disputes in which a party is challenging the validity of a decision of an organ of a company under the company law applicable or under the provisions governing the functioning of its organs, as laid down in its Articles of Association (para 26).
Since the doctors were not challenging the fact that the MDUs board was empowered under the articles to take the decision it did, but were challenging the manner in which that power was exercised, the dispute between the doctors and the MDU did not fall within article 22(2) (paras 27 30).
The court did not approach the application of article 22(2) by making an evaluative judgment about how the doctors claim related to the proceedings in Ireland, but instead focused