This appeal is concerned with the interpretation of article 24(2) of the Brussels I Recast Regulation (Parliament and Council Regulation (EU) No 1215/2012 of 12 December 2012 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (the Recast Regulation)), which sets out a special regime to determine jurisdiction in relation to certain matters regarding the governance of corporations.
Although the issue in the present case relates to where a Turkish company and certain Turkish domiciled individuals may be sued, and Turkey is of course not an EU member state, it is common ground that article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation applies to determine the question of jurisdiction which arises in this case.
Article 24 is in Section 6 of the Recast Regulation, entitled Exclusive jurisdiction.
Article 24(2) provides as follows: The following courts of a member state shall have exclusive jurisdiction, regardless of the domicile of the parties: (2) in proceedings which have as their object the validity of the constitution, the nullity or the dissolution of companies or other legal persons or associations of natural or legal persons, or the validity of the decisions of their organs, the courts of the member state in which the company, legal person or association has its seat.
In order to determine that seat, the court shall apply its rules of private international law;
The sixth appellant (Koza Altin) is a publicly listed company incorporated in Turkey.
It carries on a business specialising in gold mining.
It is part of a group of Turkish companies known as the Koza Ipek Group (the Group) which were formerly controlled by the second respondent (Mr Ipek) and members of his family.
Amongst other things, the Group has media interests in Turkey.
The first respondent (Koza Ltd) is a private company incorporated in England in March 2014.
It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Koza Altin.
Mr Ipek says that he and the Group have been targeted unfairly by a hostile government in Turkey, including by making them the subject of an investigation into alleged criminal activity and taking steps against them in conjunction with that investigation.
In order to defend himself as regards control of Koza Ltd, in September 2015 Mr Ipek caused a number of changes to be made to Koza Ltds constitution and share structure.
A new class of A shares was created and Koza Ltds articles of association were amended to introduce a new article 26 (article 26), which purported to preclude any further changes to the articles of association or any change of directors save with the prior written consent of the holders of the A shares.
Two A shares were issued, one to Mr Ipek and one to his brother.
The validity and effect of these changes is in issue in these proceedings.
The respondents contend that they are valid and lawful.
The appellants contend that they are invalid and unlawful attempts to entrench Mr Ipek and his associates in control of Koza Ltd.
In proceedings in Turkey relating to the criminal investigation in respect of Mr Ipek and the Group, on 26 October 2015 pursuant to article 133 of the Turkish Criminal Procedure Code the Fifth Ankara Criminal Peace Judge appointed certain individuals as trustees of Koza Altin and other companies in the Group, with power to control the affairs of those companies in place of the existing management.
Pursuant to further decisions of the judge dated 13 January and 3 March 2016, the first to fifth appellants were appointed as the trustees in relation to Koza Altin.
I refer to them together as the trustees, although in further proceedings in Turkey in September 2016 they were replaced by the Tasarruf Mevduati Sigorta Fonu (the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund of Turkey