 by that objective.
In that regard, the existence of a close link between the 39. courts of the member state in which [the Czech company] is established, in the present case the Czech courts, and the dispute in the main proceedings is clear. 40.
In addition to the fact that [the Czech company] is a company incorporated under Czech law, it is apparent from the file submitted to the court that the resolution of the general meeting that determined the amount of the consideration forming the subject of the main proceedings and the acts and formalities relating to it were carried out in accordance with Czech law and in the Czech language. 41.
Likewise, it is not disputed that the court with jurisdiction must apply Czech substantive law to the dispute in the main proceedings.
Consequently, bearing in mind the close link between the dispute in the main proceedings and the Czech courts, the latter are best placed to hear that dispute relating to the review of the partial validity of that resolution and the attribution, pursuant to article 22(2) of Regulation No 44/2001, of exclusive jurisdiction to those courts is such as to facilitate the sound administration of justice.
The attribution of that jurisdiction to the Czech courts is also consistent with the objectives of predictability of the rules of jurisdiction and legal certainty pursued by Regulation No 44/2001, since, as Advocate General Wathelet observed in point 35 of his opinion, the shareholders in a company, especially the principal shareholder, must expect that the courts of the member state in which that company is established will be the courts having jurisdiction to decide any internal dispute within that company relating to the review of the partial validity of a decision taken by an organ of a company. 42.
This reasoning again is not compatible with the decisions of the courts below in the present case.
If one tests the application of article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation by reference to the hypothetical Greek case referred to above, it is clear by reference to the factors identified by the Court of Justice that it would be the courts in Greece which had exclusive jurisdiction under that provision in relation to the authority claim, not the courts in England.
The non applicability of article 24(2) according to its proper interpretation does not alter when one asks whether the English courts have jurisdiction under that provision in the present case.
Article 24(2) does not apply in the present case by reason of the strict (ie narrow) interpretation to be given to that provision (para 27 of the EON judgment, above).
It is not sufficient that there is a link between the authority claim and the English company law claim (para 33 of the EON judgment, above).
There is an absence of any particularly close link between the authority claim and the English courts as would be required to bring the case within article 24(2) (para 30 of the EON judgment, above); on the contrary, the relevant particularly close link as regards the authority claim is with the courts in Turkey. 43.
In my view, the EU law regarding the interpretation and application of article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation, as reiterated in the EON judgment, is clear.
It is acte clair that this provision does not cover the authority claim in the present proceedings.
This means that the English courts cannot assert jurisdiction over Koza Altin and the trustees in relation to that claim in the present proceedings on the basis of that provision, and their appeal in that regard should be allowed.
Before leaving this part of the case, however, it should be pointed out that there is an important consequence which flows from the fact that Turkey is not a member state of the EU.
It means that the courts in Turkey do not enjoy exclusive jurisdiction in respect of the authority claim