) as trustee of Koza Altin.
The trustees, with Koza Altin itself, are the relevant parties in the present proceedings in England and for this appeal.
On 19 July 2016, the trustees caused Koza Altin to serve a notice on the directors of Koza Ltd under section 303 of the Companies Act 2006, requiring them to call a general meeting to consider resolutions for their removal and replacement with three of the trustees.
The directors of Koza Ltd did not call such a meeting, so on 10 August 2016 Koza Altin served a notice pursuant to section 305 of the 2006 Act to convene a meeting on 17 August 2016 to consider those resolutions.
The service of this notice prompted Mr Ipek and Koza Ltd to make an urgent without notice application on 16 August seeking an injunction to prevent the meeting taking place and, so far as required, orders for service out of the jurisdiction and for alternative service.
Injunctive relief as set out in the application was sought on two bases.
It was contended that (i) the notices of 19 July and 10 August 2016 (the notices) were void under section 303(5)(a) of the 2006 Act because at least one of the holders of the A shares (Mr Ipek) did not consent to the proposed resolutions and so, if passed, they would be ineffective as being passed in breach of article 26 (I refer to this claim as the English company law claim); and (ii) the notices were void on the basis that the English courts should not recognise the authority of the trustees to cause Koza Altin to do anything as a shareholder of Koza Ltd, because they were appointed on an interim basis only and in breach of Turkish law, the European Convention on Human Rights and natural justice, so that it would be contrary to public policy for the English courts to recognise the appointment (I refer to this claim as the authority claim).
As regards jurisdiction, the primary submission for Mr Ipek and Koza Ltd was that permission to serve out of the jurisdiction was not required because the English courts had exclusive jurisdiction to deal with the whole claim pursuant to article 24(2) of the Recast Regulation.
At the without notice hearing before Snowden J on 16 August 2016, the judge accepted this submission.
He granted interim injunctive relief as sought by Mr Ipek and Koza Ltd and gave permission for alternative service at the offices of Mishcon de Reya LLP, the solicitors acting for Koza Altin and the trustees.
Mr Ipek and Koza Ltd issued their claim form on 18 August 2016 seeking a declaration that the notices were ineffective, an injunction to restrain Koza Altin and the trustees from holding any meeting pursuant to the notices and from taking any steps to remove the current board of Koza Ltd, a declaration that the English courts do not recognise any authority of the trustees to cause Koza Altin to call any general meetings of Koza Ltd or to do or permit the doing of anything else as a shareholder of Koza Ltd and an injunction to restrain the trustees from holding themselves out as having any authority to act for or bind Koza Altin as a shareholder of Koza Ltd and from causing Koza Altin to do anything or permit the doing of anything as a shareholder of Koza Ltd.
Koza Altin and the trustees filed an acknowledgement of service indicating their intention to contest jurisdiction and then issued an application to do that.
At the same time, Koza Altin filed a Defence and Counterclaim to the English company law claim, impugning the validity and enforceability of article 26 and also impugning the validity and effectiveness of the board