 its analysis on the specific nature of the claim against the particular defendant, the MDU.
In view of its strict approach to the interpretation of article 22(2), it held that it could not be said that, in order for that provision to apply, it is sufficient that a legal action involve merely some link with a decision adopted by an organ of a company (paras 22 25).
The Court of Justice adopted the same approach to the interpretation and application of article 22(2) of Regulation No 44/2001 in Berliner Verkehrsbetriebe (BVG), Anstalt des ffentlichen Rechts v JP Morgan Chase Bank NA (Case C 144/10) EU:C:2011:300; [2011] 1 WLR 2087 (the BVG case).
JP Morgan and BVG, a local authority in Germany, entered into an interest rate swap contract which contained an English exclusive jurisdiction clause.
JP Morgan brought proceedings in England claiming payments which it maintained were due under the contract.
BVG argued that the swap contract was not valid because it had acted ultra vires in entering into it so that the decisions of its organs approving the making of the contract were null and void, with the result that the German courts had exclusive jurisdiction by virtue of article 22(2) of the Regulation.
BVG also commenced proceedings in Germany for a declaration that the contract was void because the decision to enter into it had been ultra vires.
The German court referred the question of jurisdiction to the Court of Justice.
The Court of Justice held that the German courts did not have exclusive jurisdiction under article 22(2).
The court followed its judgment in the Hassett case to the effect that article 22(2) had to be given a strict interpretation (paras 30 32).
It emphasised that a strict interpretation of article 22(2) which did not go beyond what was required by the objectives pursued by it was particularly necessary precisely because article 22(2) is a rule of exclusive jurisdiction which cuts across the usual expectation that parties to a contract have autonomy to choose their forum (para 32).
It further observed that one of the aims of article 22(2) was to confer exclusive jurisdiction on the courts of a member state in specific circumstances where, having regard to the matter at issue, those courts are best placed to adjudicate upon the disputes falling to them, because there is a particularly close link between those disputes and the member state (para 36).
Having identified a divergence between different language versions of article 22(2), the court held that this was to be resolved by interpreting that provision as covering only proceedings whose principal subject matter comprises the validity of the constitution, the nullity or the dissolution of the company, legal person or association or the validity of the decisions of its organs (para 44).
It also held that in a dispute of a contractual nature, questions relating to the contracts validity, interpretation or enforceability are at the heart of the dispute and form its subject matter, with the result that [a]ny question concerning the validity of the decision to conclude the contract, taken previously by the organs of one of the companies party to it, must be considered ancillary (para 38 and also paras 39 42).
In other words, in relation to a claim based on a contract and brought in England pursuant to an exclusive jurisdiction clause in which an ultra vires defence was advanced, which was inextricably bound up with and hence ancillary to the underlying claim, a narrow interpretation of article 22(2) meant that the ultra vires defence did not have the effect of pulling the whole proceedings or any part thereof into the exclusive jurisdiction of the German courts.
In that context it