 as section 14 can be amended by Parliament, article 8 provides an appropriate and effective alternative means of addressing passage of time resulting in injustice or oppression in cases where the defendant has been convicted in absentia.
Passage of time is clearly capable of being a relevant consideration in weighing the article 8 balance in extradition cases. (See H (H) v Deputy Prosecutor of the Italian Republic, Genoa (Official Solicitor intervening) [2012] UKSC 25; [2013] 1 AC 338 per Baroness Hale JSC at paras 6, 8.) It is capable of having an important bearing on the weight to be given to the public interest in extradition.
In the article 8 balancing exercise, the relevant period of time will not be subject to the restrictions which appear in section 14.
I note that in Lysiak v District Court Torun, Poland [2015] EWHC 3098 (Admin), a conviction case, the Divisional Court (Burnett LJ and Hickinbottom J) attached great weight to the nine years the criminal proceedings in Poland took to come to trial and the further two and a half years it took for the conviction to be confirmed in appeal proceedings, when concluding that it would be disproportionate under article 8 to return the defendant to Poland.
Furthermore, in cases where it is maintained that passage of time would result in injustice at the retrial to which the defendant is entitled, this consideration could also be brought into account under article 8.
The risk of prejudice at a retrial would be highly relevant in the balancing exercise which the extradition court would be required to undertake.
Moreover, the threshold test to be satisfied would not be one of injustice or oppression but the lower one of disproportionality.
This feature also makes reliance on article 8 a more effective solution than abuse of process where the burden on an appellant would be a much heavier one.
Application to the present case
On behalf of the appellant it is submitted that he should be treated as an accused person rather than a convicted person for the purpose of his extradition proceedings.
The EAW states in Box (b) that the enforceable judgment on which the warrant is based is the judgment of the District Court dated 12 May 2008, confirmed by the resolution of the Regional Court on 23 July 2008.
It states in Box (d) that the decision was rendered in absentia and that the appellant had not been summoned or otherwise informed of the hearing.
However, it also states that after surrendering the appellant will have the right to a new process by virtue of section 306a of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
I note that subsection 306a(2) refers to an application for revocation of the legally effective conviction and that subsection 306a(3) refers, in the context of limitation, to the period from the legal effectiveness of the conviction until its revocation.
The letter from the requesting judicial authority dated 17 March 2017 confirms that the appellant will have an unqualified right for complete retrial before court.
There was no evidence before the District Judge to contradict the statements of the requesting judicial authority as to the relevant law and procedure in the Czech Republic.
In these circumstances District Judge Ashworth correctly characterised the EAW as a conviction warrant.
Furthermore, he was correct in characterising this as a conviction case.
The EAW indicated that there was an enforceable judgment and a legally effective conviction which would remain such until revoked.
There was no evidence before him as to the law and procedure of the Czech Republic on which he could have concluded that this should be characterised as an accusation case.
The District Judge proceeded by following the appropriate channel in the case of a conviction warrant as required by the 2003 Act.
It was common ground