 to address both Convention rights under the 1998 Act and the issue of proportionality.
At the heart of the present appeal lies the issue of the characterisation of the appellant as an accused person or a convicted person.
The application in an individual case of the distinction drawn by the Framework Decision between these two cases may often be far from straightforward given the inevitable differences in criminal procedure among member states.
However, the EAW system is founded on the high level of mutual trust and confidence between member states and, as a result, in seeking to give effect to this distinction when applying implementing legislation, a national court will usually attach considerable weight to the description by the requesting judicial authority in the EAW of the position in its own national law.
In Caldarelli Lord Bingham expressed the matter in this way: Under article 1 of the Framework Decision the EAW is a judicial decision issued by the requesting state which (by article 2) this country (subject to the provisions of the Decision) must execute on the basis of the principle of mutual recognition.
It might in some circumstances be necessary to question statements made in the EAW by the foreign judge who issues it, even where the judge is duly authorised to issue such warrants in his category 1 territory, but ordinarily statements made by the foreign judge in the EAW, being a judicial decision, will be taken as accurately describing the procedures under the system of law he or she is appointed to administer. (para 24) Similarly, in Istanek v District Court of Prerov [2011] EWHC 1498 (Admin) Laws LJ, observed: The statement of information, having its source in the judicial authority in the requesting state, is ordinarily in our courts to be taken at face value.
It may exceptionally be appropriate to initiate further inquiry of the requesting states authorities. (para 25) The view of the requesting judicial authority expressed in the EAW will, therefore, not always be conclusive.
However, it will normally be influential and, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, it is likely to be followed. (See the discussion in Caldarelli, per Lord Mance at para 42.)
The appellants case
On behalf of the appellant, Mr Mark Summers QC submits that the category of convicted persons is limited to persons who are finally convicted and that all other persons are to be treated as accused.
He further submits that, while the content of the EAW in the present case would satisfy the requirements of either an accusation warrant or a conviction warrant under section 2 of the 2003 Act, the appellant, despite manifestly not being finally convicted, was treated as a convicted rather than an accused person for the purpose of his extradition proceedings and that this radically changed the substantive content and course of those proceedings.
In particular, he points to the following consequences: (1) The appellants EAW was measured against the less exacting conviction requirements of section 2(5) (6) of the 2003 Act as opposed to the accusation requirements of section 2(3) (4). (2) He was treated as being unlawfully at large from that conviction rather than still accused of the offences, for the purposes of the passage of time assessment under section 14.
Mr Summers submits that, as a result, consideration of delay prior to conviction and consideration of injustice were precluded.
Mr Summers seeks to advance his case on two distinct bases.
First, he submits that, as a matter of EU law, the appellant is required to be categorised as a person whose return is sought for the purposes of conducting a criminal prosecution within article 1(1) of the Framework Decision.
Secondly, he submits that, as a matter of domestic law, the appellant is not to be categorised as convicted under