WHC 218 (Admin), para 57.)
In particular, Tupikas and Zdziaszek do not support the proposition that for an EAW to be issued for the purpose of executing a custodial sentence it must be a final judgment of conviction in the sense that it is irrevocable.
On the contrary, the court in Tupikas observed: In that regard, it should be pointed out that although article 8(1)(c) of Framework Decision 2002/584 uses the terms enforceable judgment or any other enforceable judicial decision having the same effect and although such enforceability is decisive in determining the time from which a European arrest warrant may be issued, that enforceability is of lesser relevance under article 4a(1) of that Framework Decision.
However, it is appropriate to pay attention to the final nature of the decision or judgment for the purposes of interpreting article 4a(1), as is apparent from other relevant, convergent provisions of the Framework Decision. (para 71) I note that article 1(1) of the Framework Decision identifies the two categories of warrant without including any reference to a final decision.
The references in the Preamble of the Framework Decision to abolishing the formal extradition procedure in respect of persons who are fleeing from justice after having been finally sentenced (recital 1) and a system of free movement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, covering both pre sentence and final decisions (recital 5) are merely incidental.
Article 8(f) does require that a warrant should state the penalty imposed if there is a final judgment.
By contrast, article 8(c) requires a warrant to contain evidence of an enforceable judgment and any other enforceable judicial decision having the same effect.
We now have an authoritative statement from the CJEU in Tupikas (para 71) that while it is appropriate to pay attention to the final nature of the decision or judgment for the purposes of interpreting article 4a(1), it is enforceability which is decisive in determining the time from which a European arrest warrant may be issued. (See also, in this regard, IB at para 56.)
I have, accordingly, come to the clear conclusion that the appellants case founded on EU law is not made out.
In these circumstances, I would refuse the application on behalf of the appellant, made during the oral hearing, to refer this issue to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling.
Domestic law
On behalf of the appellant it is submitted that, because he has a right to be retried, he is required to be treated as an accused person for the purposes of Part 1 of the 2003 Act.
Contumacious convictions
Mr Summers submits that a conviction where a defendant has an unfettered and unconditional right to have the conviction set aside and to obtain a retrial has always been regarded, as a matter of English law, as a conviction in contumacy (conviction par contumace) and not a final judgment.
He submits that courts in this jurisdiction have consistently held that the categorisation of such a case depended upon a factual assessment of whether, upon return, the defendant would enjoy an unqualified right to a retrial on the merits notwithstanding the conviction.
If so, that persons extradition had to be sought as an accused person, the conviction being contumacious.
If not, the persons extradition had to be sought as a convicted person.
In this regard we were referred to a large number of decisions concerning contumacious convictions.
It is clear that courts in this jurisdiction, applying legislation previously in force, have been willing to treat a person convicted in his absence as an accused person, provided that the whole matter can be reopened as of right in the event of his