 the 2003 Act.
These submissions will be considered in turn.
EU law
Mr Summers places at the forefront of his submissions on EU law the decision of the CJEU in Proceedings concerning IB (Case C 306/09) [2011] 1 WLR 2227.
IB, a Romanian national had been convicted of criminal offences in Romania and sentenced to four years imprisonment to be served under a system of supervised release.
That sentence was upheld on appeal.
However, on further appeal the Supreme Court ordered that the sentence be served in custody.
The decision of the Supreme Court was rendered in absentia and IB was not notified of the date or place of the hearing.
The sentence was never executed.
IB fled Romania and settled in Belgium where he obtained a residence permit and was joined by his wife and children.
The Romanian requesting authority issued an EAW for his arrest with a view to executing the sentence.
At the relevant time, prior to Council Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA, article 4(6) of the Framework Decision authorised the executing judicial authority to refuse to execute the warrant if the [EAW] has been issued for the purposes of execution of a custodial sentence where the person is resident in the executing member state and that state undertakes to execute the sentence in accordance with its domestic law.
Article 5(1) provided that where the EAW had been issued for the purposes of executing a sentence in absentia without notice to the person concerned, surrender might be subject to a condition that the issuing judicial authority give an assurance that the person will have an opportunity to apply for a retrial.
Article 5(3) provided that where a person whose return is sought for the purposes of prosecution is a resident of the executing member state, surrender may be subject to the condition that the person is returned to the executing member state to serve there any sentence passed against him in the issuing member state.
Article 18 of the Belgian Law on Transfers, which governed the execution in Belgium of sentences imposed abroad, did not apply to sentences imposed in absentia save in specified cases where the sentence had become final.
The Belgian Court of First Instance, Nivelles, found that under Romanian procedural law, due to the fact that he had been sentenced in absentia, IB was entitled to be retried.
That court took the view that it was a warrant for the execution of a sentence and that therefore there were no legal grounds for refusing execution or making it conditional on the later return of IB to serve his sentence in Belgium.
It held that IB could not rely on the Belgian law implementing article 4(6) of the Framework Decision because it only applied to final decisions and IB had the right to request a retrial.
The court referred the matter to the Belgian Constitutional Court which, in turn, made a preliminary reference to the CJEU.
Its first two questions were as follows: (1) Is a European arrest warrant issued for the purposes of the execution of a sentence imposed in absentia, without the convicted person having been informed of the date and place of the hearing, and against which that person still has a remedy, to be considered to be, not an arrest warrant issued for the purposes of the execution of a custodial sentence or detention order within the meaning of article 4(6) of Framework Decision [2002/584], but an arrest warrant for the purposes of prosecution within the meaning of article 5(3) of the Framework Decision? (2) If the reply to the first question is in the negative, are article 4(6) and article 5(3) of the Framework Decision to be interpreted as not permitting the member states to make the surrender to the judicial authorities of the issuing state of a person residing on their territory who is the subject