, in the circumstances described in the first question, of an arrest warrant for the purposes of the execution of a custodial sentence or detention order, subject to a condition that that person be returned to the executing state in order to serve there the custodial sentence or detention order imposed by a final judgment against that person in the issuing state?
Mr Summers places particular reliance on the following passage in the judgment of the CJEU in response to the first two questions: 56.
If the sentence imposed in absentia which, in the case in the main proceedings, provides the basis for the arrest warrant is not yet enforceable, the surrender would serve the specific purpose of enabling a criminal prosecution to be conducted or the case to be retried, that is to say surrender would be for the purposes of criminal prosecution which is the situation envisaged by article 5(3) of Framework Decision 2002/584. 57.
Given that the situation of a person who was sentenced in absentia and to whom it is still open to apply for a retrial is comparable to that of a person who is the subject of a European arrest warrant for the purposes of prosecution, there is no objective reason precluding an executing judicial authority which has applied article 5(1) of Framework Decision 2002/584 from applying the condition contained in article 5(3) of that framework decision. 61 In the light of all of the foregoing considerations, the answer to the first and second questions is that articles 4(6) and 5(3) of Framework Decision 2002/584 must be interpreted as meaning that, where the executing member state has implemented article 5(1) and article 5(3) of that Framework Decision in its domestic legal system, the execution of a European arrest warrant issued for the purposes of execution of a sentence imposed in absentia within the meaning of article 5(1) of the Framework Decision, may be subject to the condition that the person concerned, who is a national or resident of the executing member state, should be returned to the executing State in order, as the case may be, to serve there the sentence passed against him, following a new trial organised in his presence in the issuing member state.
The CJEU concluded in relation to the first two questions:
Mr Summers submits that this decision and, in particular, the passage at paras 56 and 57 establish that, in all cases where a person whose surrender is sought under an EAW following conviction in absentia of which he had no notice and, as a result, is entitled to a retrial, the EAW must be characterised as for the purposes of conducting a criminal prosecution and not for the purposes of executing a custodial sentence.
I am unable to accept this submission. (1) The referring court expressly asked by its first question whether in circumstances where there was a right of retrial the EAW should be treated not as a warrant for the purposes of the execution of a custodial sentence but as a warrant for the purposes of prosecution.
The CJEU did not answer that question directly. (2) Instead it stated that if the sentence imposed in absentia is not yet enforceable the surrender would serve the purpose of enabling a criminal prosecution to be conducted or the case to be retried and the surrender would be for the purposes of criminal prosecution.
It did not say that that consequence followed if the sentence was enforceable but subject to an application to set it aside. (3) The CJEU then went on to say (at para 57) that the situation of a person sentenced in absentia and who could apply for a retrial was comparable to that of a person who was the subject of a prosecution warrant.
On that basis, it was able to conclude that there was no objective