 member state.
Disadvantage to the appellant?
Complaint is made that treating the appellant as a convicted person as opposed to an accused person disadvantaged him in the extradition proceedings in two respects.
First it is said that the EAW was measured against the less exacting requirements of a conviction case in section 2(5) (6) as opposed to those of an accusation case in section 2(3) (4).
The particular point made here concerns particularity.
In Sandi v The Craiova Court, Romania [2009] EWHC 3079 (Admin) Hickinbottom J observed (at para 33), when delivering the judgment of the Divisional Court, that there is no reason why the same level of particularity of the circumstances of the offence is needed for a conviction warrant as for an accusation warrant.
However, he went on to point out (at paras 34 36) that, while the appropriate level of particularity to satisfy section 2(6)(b) will depend on the circumstances of each case, in a conviction case the requested person will need to have sufficient details of the circumstances of the underlying offences to enable him sensibly to understand what he has been convicted of and sentenced for and to enable him to consider whether any bars to extradition might apply.
In the present case it has not been suggested that there is any specific deficiency in the particulars contained in the warrant which would disadvantage the appellant if he exercises his right to a retrial.
On the contrary, the EAW contains in Box (e) full particulars of the three relevant offences.
Secondly, it is said that the appellant is prejudiced in the consideration of the bar to extradition on grounds of passage of time under section 11(1)(c) and section 14 because the relevant periods of time differ in an accusation warrant and a conviction warrant.
Section 14 provides that a persons extradition is barred by reason of the passage of time if it would be unjust or oppressive to extradite him by reason of the passage of time (a) in an accusation case, since he is alleged to have committed the offence; and (b) in a conviction case, since he is alleged to have become unlawfully at large.
Unjust is directed primarily to the risk of prejudice to the accused in the conduct of the trial itself; oppressive is directed to hardship to the accused resulting from changes in his circumstances that have occurred during the period to be taken into consideration (Kakis v Government of the Republic of Cyprus [1978] 1 WLR 779 per Lord Diplock at pp 782H 783A).
To my mind, there is more substance in this complaint.
This bar to extradition operates very differently depending on whether the requested person is categorised as an accused person under section 14(a) (in which case he may rely on the entire passage of time since the date of the offence to found injustice or oppression) or as a person unlawfully at large after conviction under section 14(b) (in which case he may rely only on the passage of time since the date of the conviction).
Mr Summers submits that in the present case this precluded any consideration of injustice in relation to the retrial and coloured the courts assessment of oppression.
If, as I consider to be the case, a person with a right to a retrial is correctly classified as a convicted person for the purposes of the 2003 Act, I accept that this could work to his disadvantage in the operation of section 14 because the passage of time prior to his conviction is excluded from consideration.
It seems to me that this is a deficiency in the drafting of the statute which requires consideration by the legislature at an early opportunity.
This is a matter which has troubled judges in a number of cases concerning convictions in absentia