ite him by reason of the passage of time since he is alleged to have committed the extradition offence (where he is (a) accused of its commission), or (b) become unlawfully at large (where he is alleged to have been convicted of it).
Section 20 provides: 20.
Case where person has been convicted (1) If the judge is required to proceed under this section (by virtue of section 11) he must decide whether the person was convicted in his presence. (2) If the judge decides the question in subsection (1) in the affirmative he must proceed under section 21. (3) If the judge decides that question in the negative he must decide whether the person deliberately absented himself from his trial. (4) If the judge decides the question in subsection (3) in the affirmative he must proceed under section 21. (5) If the judge decides that question in the negative he must decide whether the person would be entitled to a retrial or (on appeal) to a review amounting to a retrial. (6) If the judge decides the question in subsection (5) in the affirmative he must proceed under section 21. (7) If the judge decides that question in the negative he must order the persons discharge. (8) The judge must not decide the question in subsection (5) in the affirmative unless, in any proceedings that it is alleged would constitute a retrial or a review amounting to a retrial, the person would have these rights (a) the right to defend himself in person or through legal assistance of his own choosing or, if he had not sufficient means to pay for legal assistance, to be given it free when the interests of justice so required; (b) the right to examine or have examined witnesses against him and to obtain the attendance and examination of witnesses on his behalf under the same conditions as witnesses against him.
Section 21 provides in relevant part: 21.
Person unlawfully at large: human rights (1) If the judge is required to proceed under this section (by virtue of section 20) he must decide whether the persons extradition would be compatible with the Convention rights within the meaning of the Human Rights Act 1998 (c 42). (2) If the judge decides the question in subsection (1) in the negative he must order the persons discharge. (3) If the judge decides that question in the affirmative he must order the person to be extradited to the category 1 territory in which the warrant was issued.
Section 21A provides in relevant part: 21A Person not convicted: human rights and proportionality If the judge is required to proceed under this (1) section (by virtue of section 11), the judge must decide both of the following questions in respect of the extradition of the person (D) the extradition would be (a) whether the extradition would be compatible with the Convention rights within the meaning of the Human Rights Act 1998; (b) whether disproportionate. (2) In deciding whether the extradition would be disproportionate, the judge must take into account the specified matters relating to proportionality (so far as the judge thinks it appropriate to do so); but the judge must not take any other matters into account. (3) These are the specified matters relating to proportionality the seriousness of the conduct alleged to (a) constitute the extradition offence; (b) the likely penalty that would be imposed if D was found guilty of the extradition offence; (c) the possibility of the relevant foreign authorities taking measures that would be less coercive than the extradition of D. (4) The judge must order Ds discharge if the judge makes one or both of these decisions that the extradition would not be (a) compatible with the Convention rights; (