 a borderline case where culpable delay on the part of the judicial authority would tip the balance in the appellants favour.
However, the District Judge returned to the issue of delay when carrying out the balancing exercise under article 8 ECHR.
He listed this among the factors militating against extradition.
He noted that the delay since the crimes were committed could both diminish the weight to be attached to the public interest and increase the impact upon private and family life.
Here the offending had been some 12 13 years earlier when the appellant had been considerably younger.
The passage of time would have served to mature him and in the intervening period he had worked peaceably.
There was no evidence he had any knowledge of the proceedings against him.
There was no explanation for the considerable delay in finding him, bearing in mind that he was living openly in another member state.
Nevertheless, the public interest factors in favour of extradition outweighed his family and private life considerations, even when the delay was taken into account.
On appeal, Sir Wyn Williams considered that the District Judge had been correct in considering that, when assessing whether the passage of time rendered his return unjust or oppressive under sections 11(1)(c) and 14 of the 2003 Act, the relevant period of time commenced on 12 May 2008.
He referred to the fact that throughout that period the appellant had led a settled life in the north of England and that this was a marked change from the time when he was apparently committing serious offences in the Czech Republic.
The District Judge was not to be criticised for his observations in relation to the possibly exculpatory papers.
There was no real basis for a conclusion that extradition would be unjust.
He could not conclude that the District Judge was wrong to conclude that extradition of the appellant would not be oppressive.
Sir Wyn returned to the issue of delay in the context of article 8.
He considered that the District Judge was entitled to approach the case on the basis that there had been long delays in the processes leading to the certification of the EAW which were unexplained.
The District Judge was not wrong in failing to infer from the length of the delay that the requesting judicial authority or the National Crime Agency were guilty of culpable delay.
The District Judge was right to consider that there were very powerful factors supporting an order for extradition.
While Sir Wyn observed that he might have been more troubled than was the District Judge about the length of the delay, he was unable to say that his ultimate decision that extradition was not an unwarranted interference with article 8 rights was wrong.
Accordingly, he dismissed the appeal.
I am satisfied that in this case full and appropriate account was taken of the entire passage of time since the offences were allegedly committed, albeit in the context of section 21 of the 2003 Act and article 8 ECHR as opposed to sections 11(1)(c) and 14 of the 2003 Act.
I am also satisfied that this appellant has not been disadvantaged in any way as a result.
Like Sir Wyn, I might have been more troubled than the District Judge about the length of delay in this case, but I am unable to say that the decision of the District Judge was wrong.
Finally, I should record that in his case Mr Summers points to what he says are further instances of substantive unfairness which might result from the characterisation of a case as a conviction case where the person whose return is sought has a right to a retrial.
These relate to double criminality, prematurity, issues of forum and proportionality.
However, as it is accepted on behalf of the appellant that they do not arise in this case and as they were not developed in argument, I do not propose to address them.
Conclusion
For these reasons, I would dismiss the appeal.
