 reason precluding an executing judicial authority from applying the condition contained in article 5(3).
The court was extending the application of article 5(3).
It was not saying that such a warrant was or was to be treated for all purposes as if it were a prosecution warrant. (4) The CJEU concluded (at para 57) that the condition contained in article 5(3) could be applied by an executing judicial authority which had applied article 5(1).
The warrant must, therefore, have been issued for the purposes of executing a sentence or detention order. (5) Had the CJEU intended to draw the conclusion for which the appellant contends, it would have effected a fundamental change in the operation of the EAW scheme.
I am confident that, had this been intended, such a development would have been expressed by the court in the clearest terms possible. (6) I accept that there are certain passages in the opinion of Advocate General Cruz Villalon which go some way to support the proposition for which the appellant in this case contends.
In particular, at paras 49 51 the Advocate General considers that an EAW which allows the person sought to be retried is formally a warrant for execution of a sentence which, once the person states that he or she wishes to be retried, becomes in substance a warrant for the purposes of prosecution.
Accordingly, he says, entry into play of article 5(1) changes the form of the arrest warrant but does not affect the rights accorded to the person concerned under EU law.
However, there is no trace of such reasoning in the judgment of the court.
Moreover, it is inconsistent with the dichotomy between accusation warrants and conviction warrants established by the Framework Decision, a dichotomy which has been maintained since the decision in IB.
When asked by the court during the course of his submissions whether there was any other Luxembourg authority to support his submission, Mr Summers very frankly accepted that there was no such direct authority.
He did, however, refer the court to Criminal proceedings against Tupikas (Case C 270/17PPU) [2017] 4 WLR 188.
This case, it seems to me, is concerned with a different issue.
There, the EAW mentioned an enforceable judgment sentencing the defendant to a term of imprisonment and further stated that he had unsuccessfully appealed against that judgment.
He had appeared in person at the trial at first instance but the EAW provided no information as to whether he had appeared at the appeal hearing.
The CJEU held that where the criminal procedure of the issuing member state gives rise to successive judicial decisions, at least one of which has been handed down in absentia, the concept of trial resulting in the decision in article 4a(1) of the Framework Decision must be interpreted as relating only to the instance at the end of which the decision is handed down which finally rules on the guilt of the person concerned and imposes a penalty on him, following a re examination, in fact and in law, of the merits of the case (at para 98).
The decision was therefore concerned with ascertaining which stage or stages of proceedings constitute the trial resulting in the decision for the purposes of article 4a.
Criminal proceedings against Zdziaszek (Case C 271/17PPU) [2017] 4 WLR 189 addresses the same issue and applies Tupikas.
This is a distinct question from that before us, namely whether the present case is to be treated as an accusation case or a conviction case. (I note that the same conclusion was drawn by the Divisional Court (Treacy LJ and Males J) in Attila Imre v District Court in Szolnok (Hungary) [2018] E