 (Admin); [2009] 2 All ER 821 and Istanek v District Court of Prerov [2011] EWHC 1498 (Admin).
In Sonea the appellant was arrested under a conviction warrant which stated that in his absence he had been tried and convicted in Romania and sentenced to ten years imprisonment.
He appealed against an order for his extradition contending that because he had a right to a re trial in Romania the warrant should have been drafted as an accusation warrant and was therefore invalid.
This submission was rejected by the Divisional Court (Scott Baker LJ and Maddison J).
Scott Baker LJ, delivering the only judgment, considered (at para 9) that it was necessary to follow carefully and chronologically the structure of the 2003 Act and that it was liable to be misleading to pick out observations by judges concerned with earlier legislation.
The structure of Part 1 of the Extradition Act 2003 envisages a step by step approach by the judge.
Each step requires consideration of a particular question and its answer determines the next move that the judge is required to make.
It is to be noted that it is only when the step by step exercise takes the judge to section 20 that he is required to consider whether the person was convicted in his presence, whether he deliberately absented himself from his trial and whether he would be entitled to a retrial or (on appeal) to a review amounting to a retrial.
As Ms Mannion, for the respondent, observes section 20 is only reached where a person has been convicted and if Ms Freemans argument is correct none of the steps set out in such detail in section 20 would be relevant.
Ms Freemans argument, as it seems to me, puts the cart before the horse.
It seeks to extract questions that Parliament has said fall to be dealt with under section 20 and make them issues that determine the nature of the warrant, whereas the legislation clearly sets out a step by step process that the judge must follow. (paras 16, 18) The fact that the appellant had an unfettered right to a retrial did not stop the warrant from being a conviction warrant.
A similar approach was adopted by the Divisional Court (Laws LJ, Collins and Stadlen JJ) in Istanek.
The appellant had been convicted in the Czech Republic in his absence.
He was entitled to a full retrial by virtue of section 306a of the Czech Penal code, the same provision which applies in the present case.
A conviction EAW was issued for his surrender and his return was ordered.
On behalf of the appellant it was argued that he was, in truth, an accused person and not a convicted person and that the warrant was, accordingly, invalid.
Laws LJ, delivering the only judgment, noted the apparently conflicting authorities and observed (at para 29) of Bikar, Janiga and Ruzicka that all three were cases where the result arrived at was in fact in conformity with the requesting states position on the question whether the proposed extraditee was to be treated as accused or convicted.
However, in his view there was no reason to hold that in the result any of those cases was wrongly decided on its facts.
He considered it plain that Sonea was correctly decided.
Laws LJ considered (at para 23) that it was inherent in the scheme of the 2003 Act that courts in this jurisdiction will proceed on the basis of the statements in the warrant and will properly categorise the relevant facts according to the procedures and law of the foreign state.
Applying Caldarelli, he observed (at paras 23 25) that information in an EAW, having its source in the judicial authority of the requesting state, is ordinarily