 in our courts to be taken at face value although it may exceptionally be appropriate to initiate further inquiry of the requesting authority.
With regard to finality, he noted (at paras 26 27) that the definition of the EAW in article 1(1) contained no reference to finality although there was a reference to it in article 8(1)(f).
He considered that insofar as finality is an incident of conviction for the purposes of a conviction EAW, the warrant will reflect the meaning of finality applied in the criminal jurisdiction of the requesting state.
Furthermore, he considered (at para 28) that the existence of a right of retrial cannot be treated, as a matter of law, as systematically inconsistent with the fugitive being a convicted person.
To apply such a one size fits all approach would be inconsistent with his general approach and with section 20.
The issue of characterisation was not to be decided by courts in this jurisdiction by their own lights.
That would be contrary to the position taken by the Czech judicial authority which had explained that if a fugitive convicted in absentia did not ask for his case to be reopened, the judgment would remain legally binding and enforceable, as the entire proceedings had already taken place and the judgment was already legally valid.
I find the reasoning of the Divisional Courts in Sonea and Istanek compelling.
The scheme of Part 1 of the 2003 Act is restrictive in that the judge at an extradition hearing is directed to follow particular routes through the statute depending on his answer to each question the statute requires him to address.
This step by step approach is entirely incompatible with the appellants case.
If and to the extent that Sonea and Istanek are inconsistent with the approach adopted in other cases, in particular Bikar, Janiga and Ruzicka, I consider that Sonea and Istanek are to be preferred.
The process of characterisation
The criteria for determining what constitutes a criminal conviction for the purposes of the Framework Decision and implementing legislation within member states must be derived from the Framework Decision.
Those criteria must be applied to the position as it exists under the law and practice of the member state of the requesting authority.
I consider, therefore, that the following principles should be applied by a court in this jurisdiction when seeking to characterise a case as an accusation case or a conviction case. (1) The dichotomy drawn by the Framework Decision between accusation warrants and conviction warrants is a matter of EU law.
The Framework Decision does not have direct effect but national implementing legislation should, so far as possible, be interpreted consistently with its terms. (2) The court should seek to categorise the relevant facts by reference to their status and effects in the law and procedure of the member state of the requesting judicial authority. (3) Ordinarily, statements made by the requesting judicial authority in the EAW or in supplementary communications will be taken to be an accurate account of its law and procedure but evidence may be admitted to contradict them. (4) A person may properly be regarded as convicted for this purpose if the conviction is binding and enforceable under the law and procedure of the member state of the requesting authority. (5) For this purpose, it is not a requirement that a conviction should be final in the sense of being irrevocable.
In particular, a convicted person who has a right to a retrial may, nevertheless, be properly considered a convicted person for this purpose, provided that the conviction is binding and enforceable in the law and procedure of the member state of the requesting authority. (6) While the view of the requesting judicial authority on the issue of characterisation cannot be determinative, the question whether a conviction is binding and enforceable will depend on the law of that