 current relevance of the principle of contumacious convictions as developed in this jurisdiction to extradition proceedings under Part 2 of the 2003 Act, I consider that it has none under Part 1.
The statutory scheme
More generally, I consider that the appellants case that, because of his right to be retried, he is required to be treated as an accused person for the purposes of Part 1 of the 2003 Act is inconsistent with the EAW scheme and the express provisions of the statute.
Mr Summers submits that, when section 11 is applied in this case, if none of the bars to extradition applies the case falls within section 11(5) because the appellant is a person accused.
However, even if the appellant were required to be treated as a person accused for this purpose, which I would not accept, that subsection applies only where the person is accused of the commission of an extradition offence but is not alleged to be unlawfully at large after conviction of it.
Section 68A defines unlawfully at large for the purposes of section 11.
Here, the appellant clearly falls within that definition.
He is alleged to have been convicted of the relevant offences and his extradition is sought for the purpose of his serving a sentence of imprisonment imposed in respect of those offences.
His case does not fall within subsection 11(5) but within subsection 11(4) because he is alleged to be unlawfully at large after conviction of the extradition offence.
As a result, the judge is directed to proceed under section 20 and not under section 21A.
Mr Summers then submits that if section 20 is applied to the case of this appellant, he would enter section 20 as a convicted person but should leave as an accused person.
He would have been recognised by the extradition court as entitled to an unfettered and unconditional retrial.
In these circumstances, it is submitted, fairness ought to dictate that he now be recategorized as an accused person and that all of the antecedent statutory questions that have been answered on the false premise that he was a convicted person be re examined.
I am unable to accept this submission.
First, section 20 is intended to provide protection in the specific case of a person convicted in his absence and the sequential application of its express provisions achieves precisely that.
In the present case, it is common ground that the appellant was not convicted in his presence within subsection 20(1) and that he did not deliberately absent himself from his trial under subsection 20(3).
However, it is also common ground that he would be entitled to a retrial under subsection 20(5) which meets the requirements of subsection 20(8).
If the last issue were not resolved in that way, the appellant would have to be discharged.
In this case, however, the judge is directed by subsection 20(6) to proceed under section 21 which addresses the human rights of persons unlawfully at large.
Secondly, I am unable to accept the submission that section 20 is the successor to section 6(2) of the Extradition Act 1989 and therefore was never intended to apply to persons with a right of retrial.
In this regard I note the decision of the Divisional Court in Foy v The Governor of HM Prison Brixton and the Government of France (unreported) 14 April 2000 on the earlier provision.
However, whatever may have been the position under the 1989 Act, it is clear that section 20 is intended to make comprehensive provision for cases where a convicted person was convicted in absentia.
Thirdly, Mr. Summers submits that if a person convicted in absentia subsequently disavows his right to a retrial his status would revert to that of a convicted person.
However