b) disproportionate. that the extradition would be (5) The judge must order D to be extradited to the category 1 territory in which the warrant was issued if the judge makes both of these decisions that the extradition would be compatible (a) with the Convention rights; (b) disproportionate. that the extradition would not be Section 68A provides: 68A.
Unlawfully at large (1) A person is alleged to be unlawfully at large after conviction of an offence if (a) he is alleged to have been convicted of it, and (b) his extradition is sought for the purpose of his being sentenced for the offence or of his serving a sentence of imprisonment or another form of detention imposed in respect of the offence. (2) This section applies for the purposes of this Part, other than sections 14 and 63.
The EAW
The EAW in this case was issued by the District Court on 17 April 2013.
It states that it is based on an enforceable judgment, namely the judgment of the District Court dated 12 May 2008, confirmed by the resolution of the Regional Court in Brno dated 23 July 2008.
It states that the length of the custodial sentence imposed was eight years.
In compliance with article 4a of the Framework Decision as amended it states in Box (d) that the decision was reached in absentia and that the person concerned has not been summoned in person or otherwise informed of the date and place of the hearing which led to the decision rendered in absentia.
However, it specifies legal guarantees as follows: After surrendering, the convict will have the right for a new process in his presence.
Such right is ensured by the provisions of section 306a para 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
The provisions of section 306a para 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure say: Section 306a (1) If reasons for the proceedings against the escaped person cease, it will be proceeded in the criminal procedure based on general provisions.
If the defendant requires so, the evidence already given in the previous court proceedings, the nature of which allows so or the repetition of which are not hindered by any significant fact, shall be given again in the proceedings in front of the court.
Otherwise the protocols on giving of such evidence will be read out to the defendant or the video and audio recordings made on the acts made via videoconference facilities shall be played to him and he will be allowed to make his statement on them. (2) If the proceedings against the escaped person were ended by a legally effective conviction and subsequently the reasons ceased, for which the proceedings were lead against the escaped person; based on the application of the convict filed within eight days as of the delivery of the conviction, the court of the first degree shall revoke such a conviction and the main hearing will be done repeatedly, in the scope stipulated under para 1.
The convict must receive instructions on the right to file an application for revocation of the legally effective conviction when the conviction is delivered.
The court reasonably proceeds if it is required by an international treaty by which the Czech Republic is bound. (3) The period from the legal effectiveness of the conviction until its revocation pursuant to para 2 shall not be counted in the statute of limitations. (4) the resolution to the disadvantage of the defendant.
In the new proceedings there cannot be any change in The EAW then sets out a description of each of the three offences of fraud of which the appellant was convicted.
Accusation warrants and conviction warrants
Part 1 of the 2003 Act gives effect in national law to the Framework Decision as amended.
The choice of form and methods to achieve that result is left to member states.
In this instance, the United