 Act as a person accused of the commission of an extradition offence but not alleged to be unlawfully at large after conviction of it, not within section 11(4) as a person alleged to be unlawfully at large after conviction of it.
In terms of recital 1 of the Framework Decision he has not been finally sentenced and (article 8(f)) no final judgment has been given as to the penalty imposed. (para 24)
We were also referred, on behalf of the appellant, to the decision of the Divisional Court (Sharp LJ and Sweeney J) in Lewicki v Preliminary Investigation Tribunal of Napoli, Italy [2018] EWHC 1160 (Admin).
That decision was, however, an application of Caldarelli (see Sweeney J at paras 67 68) and therefore does not assist the appellant.
The appellant also relies on a line of relatively recent authority in which it was held that persons convicted in absentia who had a right to request a new trial could be dealt with as persons accused.
In R (Bikar) v The Governor of HM Prison Brixton [2003] EWHC 372 (Admin), a case on the Extradition Act 1989, the applicants, who had been convicted in absentia in the Czech Republic resisted their extradition under an accusation warrant on the ground that autrefois convict applied.
Henriques J held that as they had a right to request a new trial this was not a final judgment and accordingly they could be dealt with as persons accused as in Foy v Governor of HM Prison Brixton where the Divisional Court had held that a person who would be entitled to have his conviction set aside was rightly regarded for the purposes of section 6(3) of the Extradition Act 1989 as a person accused.
In Usti Nad Labem Regional Court (Czech Republic) v Janiga [2010] EWHC 463 (Admin) Mr Janiga had absconded after the start of his trial in the Czech Republic.
An EAW was issued.
In the period between the issue of the warrant and the extradition hearing in the United Kingdom he was convicted and sentenced in his absence, although lawyers attended the hearing on his behalf.
His lawyers lodged an appeal against conviction and sentence.
On appeal the conviction was upheld but the sentence reduced.
At the extradition hearing the District Judge ordered his discharge on the ground that the accusation warrant was defective as he had been convicted.
The Divisional Court (Waller LJ and Swift J) allowed the appeal.
Further information provided by the issuing authority established a right to apply for reversal of the judgment and this puts it completely beyond doubt in our view that the conviction and sentence were not final and enforceable (at paras 49 53).
In Ruzicka v District Court of Nitra, Slovakia [2010] EWHC 1819 (Admin) the Divisional Court (Elias LJ and Keith J) held that an accusation warrant issued by the Slovakian judicial authority was valid notwithstanding the fact that Mr Ruzicka had already been convicted and sentenced in Slovakia because he had appealed against the conviction and sentence in circumstances in which the appeal had caused the conviction and sentence to cease to be valid.
In these circumstances the court considered it plain that the conviction and sentence was not a final determination of the criminal process.
Until the expiry of time within which to appeal the judgment was neither final nor enforceable.
Accordingly, the accusation warrant was in correct form.
The court approved the similar conclusion in Janiga.
Bikar, Janiga and Ruzicka should, however, be contrasted with Sonea v Mehedinti District Court, Romania [2009] EWHC 89