 subsequent surrender and appearance. (See, for example, R v Governor of Pentonville Prison, Ex p Zezza [1983] 1 AC 46, per Lord Roskill at p 55D E.) This approach has also been reflected in the legislation itself. (See, for example, section 26 Extradition Act 1870; section 19(2), Fugitive Offenders Act 1967; Schedule 1, paragraph 20 to the Extradition Act 1989.) However, the appellants reliance on these authorities fails to take account of the fact that the EAW was intended to be a new departure introducing a simplified scheme for the surrender of accused and convicted persons.
The Framework Decision sets out a relatively detailed scheme which distinguishes between an accusation warrant and a conviction warrant without giving any indication that a principle of contumacious convictions resembling that developed in this jurisdiction was to play any part.
On the contrary, provision was made originally in article 5(1) and is now made by article 4a(1) for cases of conviction in absentia without requiring or permitting a person with a right of retrial to be dealt with under the scheme as an accused person.
Indeed, the original article 5(1) contemplated that cases of conviction in absentia would be dealt with under a conviction warrant, as does recital (13) in the Preamble to Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA.
Recital (4) in the Preamble to that Framework Decision provides: (4) It is therefore necessary to provide clear and common grounds for non recognition of decisions rendered following a trial at which the person concerned did not appear in person.
This Framework Decision is aimed at refining the definition of such common grounds allowing the executing authority to execute the decision despite the absence of the person at the trial, while fully respecting the persons right of defence.
This Framework Decision is not designed to regulate the forms and methods, including procedural requirements, that are used to achieve the results specified in this Framework Decision, which are a matter for the national laws of the member states.
Lest the contrary be suggested, I consider that the final sentence of this recital leaves no room for the application of a principle which would be inconsistent with the common scheme.
In the same way, in the implementing legislation in Part 1 of the 2003 Act section 20 is clearly intended to make comprehensive provision for cases of conviction in absentia without requiring or permitting a contumacious conviction to be treated as an accusation case.
I consider that the principles relating to contumacious convictions developed in the case law under previous legislation can have no application under the current scheme.
For courts in this jurisdiction now to impose this concept unilaterally on the EAW scheme by requiring accusation warrants in such cases would be highly disruptive of the EAW scheme and inconsistent with the obligations of the United Kingdom under it.
The principle of contumacious convictions described above is likely to be the origin of an observation of Lord Brown in Gomes v Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago [2009] UKHL 21; [2009] 1 WLR 1038 in relation to section 82 of the 2003 Act, a provision in Part 2 of the Act, which is in substantially identical terms as section 14.
The final question discussed before the House was the period of time for consideration under section 82.
It starts, of course, with the date of the alleged offence (section 82(a)) or when the fugitive became unlawfully at large (section 82(b)) (a fugitive tried in his absence without having deliberately absented himself from his trial falling for this purpose under section 82(a)). (para 38) Whatever may be the