, nothing in the statutory scheme contemplates or makes provision for such changes of status.
Mr Summers accepts that section 20(6), which requires the judge to proceed under section 21 which addresses the human rights of persons unlawfully at large, appears to preclude the approach for which he contends.
It does indeed.
If a person whose surrender is sought emerges from section 20 as an accused person his or her case should, surely, thereafter be dealt with under section 21A which addresses the human rights and proportionality of a person not convicted.
Mr Summers response was that this was an oversight in the drafting of the legislation.
He submits that it would still be open to the extradition court at any stage to recognise that the warrant was no longer valid as a conviction warrant within the meaning of section 2 and to cause it to be re appraised and re issued if necessary as an accusation warrant.
Further, he submits that the fact that EU law requires a defendant in such circumstances to be re treated as an accused person requires the court to adopt a reading of section 20 which achieves that result or to find a common law solution which achieves that result.
Here he relies on Criminal proceedings against Pupino.
For reasons stated earlier in this judgment, I do not accept that EU law requires the result for which he contends.
Moreover, it seems to me that this proposed reading of section 20 cannot be correct and, on the contrary, that subsections 20(6), (7) and (8) make it entirely clear that a person with a right to a retrial which meets the requirements in (8) is to be treated as convicted not as accused.
The express provisions in their natural meaning provide a coherent structure within which to address all cases of trial in absentia.
Authorities
We have been referred to a number of authorities which, it is said, support the appellants case.
Mr Summers places considerable reliance on the decision of the House of Lords in Caldarelli.
In that case, Mr Caldarelli had been convicted by an Italian court of a drugs offence and sentenced to a term of imprisonment.
He had deliberately absented himself from the trial but was represented by lawyers appointed by him personally.
His lawyers lodged an appeal on his behalf.
While that appeal was still pending an Italian judge issued an EAW which stated that he was accused in Italy of a drugs offence.
He was arrested in the United Kingdom under the warrant and his extradition to Italy ordered.
He appealed on the ground that the warrant ought to have included a statement that he had been convicted of an offence in accordance with section 2(5) of the 2003 Act and was therefore invalid.
The appeal was dismissed on the ground that his extradition was sought for the purposes of his being prosecuted for an offence within section 2(3)(b).
Contrary to what might appear at first sight, however, the decision does not assist the appellant in the present case.
Under Italian law the first instance judgment and sentence were neither final nor enforceable until the criminal appeal process was concluded and Mr Caldarelli was not regarded as convicted until his conviction became final.
Furthermore, he was not entitled as of right to a retrial or to a review amounting to a retrial.
As Lord Bingham explained: Here, as is common ground, the foreign judge has treated the appellant as an accused and not a convicted person.
This seems strange to an English lawyer, familiar with a procedure by which a defendant sentenced to imprisonment at the end of a jury trial goes down the steps from the dock to the cells.
But such is not the practice in Italy where the trial is indeed a continuing process, not yet finally completed in this case, and not an event.
On the evidence the appellant falls within section 11(5) of the