 merits of the case, including fresh evidence, to be re examined, and which may lead to the original decision being reversed; and (ii) will be informed of the time frame within which he or she has to request such a retrial or appeal, as mentioned in the relevant European arrest warrant.
Article 2(3) of Council Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA of 26 February 2009 sets out the amended requirements of the information to be included in an EAW in such a case.
The Framework Decision as amended is implemented in the United Kingdom by Part 1 of the Extradition Act 2003 as amended.
Section 2 provides in relevant part: 2.
Part 1 warrant and certificate (1) This section applies if the designated authority receives a Part 1 warrant in respect of a person. (2) A Part 1 warrant is an arrest warrant which is issued by a judicial authority of a category 1 territory and which contains (a) the statement referred to in subsection (3) and the information referred to in subsection (4), or (b) the statement referred to in subsection (5) and the information referred to in subsection (6). (3) The statement is one that (a) the person in respect of whom the Part 1 warrant is issued is accused in the category 1 territory of the commission of an offence specified in the warrant, and (b) the Part 1 warrant is issued with a view to his arrest and extradition to the category 1 territory for the purpose of being prosecuted for the offence. (4) (5) The statement is one that (a) the person in respect of whom the Part 1 warrant is issued has been convicted of an offence specified in the warrant by a court in the category 1 territory, and (b) the Part 1 warrant is issued with a view to his arrest and extradition to the category 1 territory for the purpose of being sentenced for the offence or of serving a sentence of imprisonment or another form of detention imposed in respect of the offence.
Section 10 provides: 10.
Initial stage of extradition hearing Section 11 provides in relevant part: 11.
Bars to extradition (1)(1) This section applies if a person in respect of whom a Part 1 warrant is issued appears or is brought before the appropriate judge for the extradition hearing. (2) The judge must decide whether the offence specified in the Part 1 warrant is an extradition offence. (3) If the judge decides the question in subsection (2) in the negative he must order the persons discharge. (4) If the judge decides that question in the affirmative he must proceed under section 11. (1) If the judge is required to proceed under this section he must decide whether the persons extradition to the category 1 territory is barred by reason of the passage of time; (c) (2) Sections 12 to 19F apply for the interpretation of subsection (1). (3) If the judge decides any of the questions in subsection (1) in the affirmative he must order the persons discharge. (4) If the judge decides those questions in the negative and the person is alleged to be unlawfully at large after conviction of the extradition offence, the judge must proceed under section 20. (5) If the judge decides those questions in the negative and the person is accused of the commission of the extradition offence but is not alleged to be unlawfully at large after conviction of it, the judge must proceed under section 21A. Section 14 provides: 14.
Passage of time A persons extradition to a category 1 territory is barred by reason of the passage of time if (and only if) it appears that it would be unjust or oppressive to extrad