 that the offences specified in the warrant were extradition offences as required by section 10.
Under section 11(1)(c), as amplified by section 14, he considered whether extradition was barred by reason of the passage of time since the appellant was convicted in 2008 and concluded that it was not.
So far as section 20 is concerned, it was common ground that the appellant had been tried, convicted and sentenced in absentia, and that the appellant had not deliberately absented himself from his trial, but that he would be entitled to a retrial meeting the requirements of subsection 20(8).
The District Judge therefore, correctly, proceeded to consider under section 21 the appellants ground founded on his right to respect for his family and private life under article 8 ECHR.
Having decided that the appellants extradition would be compatible with his Convention rights, the District Judge ordered his extradition to the Czech Republic as required by section 21(3).
In the present case the appellant was convicted on 12 May 2008 of three offences alleged to have been committed between November 2004 and March 2005.
The conviction was confirmed by the Regional Court on 23 July 2008.
The EAW was issued on 17 April 2013.
It was certified by the National Crime Agency on 2 March 2017 and the appellant was arrested on the same day.
At the extradition hearing the appellant relied on evidence as to changes in his personal circumstances.
He also maintained that in 2005 the police in the Czech Republic had spoken to him and removed documents relevant to his defence to the current offences.
The documents, which he claimed would exculpate him, had not been returned.
At the extradition hearing the District Judge considered the passage of time under section 11(1)(c) and section 14.
At this point in his judgment he confined his attention to the passage of time since the date of conviction in 2008.
In 2003 the appellant had been convicted and sentenced to four years imprisonment in the Czech Republic.
That conviction related to the same building project to which the 2008 convictions related.
He had been aware in November 2005 that the police were once again conducting investigations.
He came to the United Kingdom in June 2007.
In November 2007 the Office of the District Public Prosecutor had issued a consent to his detention.
The District Judge noted that as there was no direct evidence that the appellant knew of the proceedings against him, it was common ground that he could not be considered a fugitive for the purposes of section 14.
During the period since 2008 the appellant had been working as a lorry driver in the United Kingdom.
His partner had suffered a workplace accident in 2012 which had impaired her ability to work although she now works full time at her own jewellery making business.
The District Judge considered that the long period between conviction and arrest on the EAW had not been a time of particular change in the appellants life.
The offending was particularly serious, repetitive and followed closely his release for a similar offence.
Mr Konecny had been termed a particularly dangerous recidivist by the Czech authorities.
So far as the documents given to the police in 2005 were concerned, there had been a trial in 2008 and there was no evidence to suggest that the documents had been lost or destroyed.
If they had been, the magistrate was entitled to assume that the retrial to which the appellant was entitled would be compliant with article 6 ECHR and that that would take account of that potential unfairness.
Having regard to all these factors he concluded that the circumstances of the delay did not justify a finding that it would be unjust or oppressive to return the appellant.
This was not, in his assessment,