 Kingdom has departed significantly from a direct implementation of the scheme of the Framework Decision.
The provisions of Part 1 of the 2003 Act must, nevertheless, be interpreted as intended to give effect to the Framework Decision and, so far as possible, construed consistently with its terms and purpose. (Criminal proceedings against Pupino (Case C 105/03) [2006] QB 83, paras 43, 47; Office of the Kings Prosecutor, Brussels v Cando Armas [2005] UKHL 67; [2006] 2 AC 1 per Lord Bingham at para 8; Dabas v High Court of Justice in Madrid, Spain [2007] UKHL 6; [2007] 2 AC 31 per Lord Hope at para 25; Caldarelli v Judge for Preliminary Investigations of the Court of Naples, Italy [2008] UKHL 51; [2008] 1 WLR 1724 per Lord Bingham at para 22, per Lord Mance at para 42.)
The Framework Decision defines the EAW as a judicial decision issued by a member state with a view to the arrest and surrender by another member state of a requested person for the purposes of conducting a criminal prosecution (an accusation warrant) or executing a custodial sentence or detention order (a conviction warrant) (article 1(1)).
In general, the Framework Decision deals with accusation and conviction cases together although the respective formal requirements of the two types of warrant differ.
The 2003 Act distinguishes between an accusation warrant (section 2(3) and (4)) and a conviction warrant (section 2(5) and (6)).
This distinction is particularly pronounced under the 2003 Act because not only do the formal requirements of the respective warrants differ but the statute also sets out separate routes which must be followed in those respective cases.
On the face of the Acts provisions, the judge at the extradition hearing must initially in both cases decide under section 10 whether the offence specified in the Part 1 warrant is an extradition offence.
If it is, he must then consider whether extradition is barred by any of the matters set out in section 11.
Most of the bars apply equally to accusation and conviction warrants but two (absence of prosecution decision and forum) apply only to accusation warrants.
The bar arising by reason of the passage of time is amplified in section 14 which draws an important distinction between an accused person (where the relevant period will be the passage of time since he is alleged to have committed the extradition offence) and a convicted person (where the relevant period will be the passage of time since he is alleged to have become unlawfully at large).
If extradition is not barred, the different routes diverge further at this point.
The statute provides that if the person is alleged to be unlawfully at large after conviction of the extradition offence the judge must proceed under section 20 (section 11(4)).
Under section 20, the court must be satisfied that, where the person has been convicted, he was convicted in his presence, or he deliberately absented himself from his trial, or he would be entitled to a retrial or (on appeal) to a review amounting to a retrial.
If section 20 is satisfied the judge must proceed under section 21 which addresses the compatibility of the persons extradition with Convention rights under the Human Rights Act 1998 (HRA 1998).
By contrast, if the person is accused of the commission of the extradition offence but is not alleged to be unlawfully at large after conviction of it, section 11(5) directs that the judge must proceed under section 21A.
Section 21A is discrete from section 21 and requires the judge