.
In Campbell v Public Prosecutor of the Grande Instance Tribunal of St Malo, France [2013] EWHC 1288 (Admin) Keith J was inclined to think that the appellant could not rely on the passage of time since the date of commission of the alleged offence because he faced a conviction warrant, but he nevertheless examined whether the delay from that date would have been oppressive for the purposes of section 14 and concluded that it would now be an abuse of process to insist upon his return.
In R (Cousins) v Public Prosecution of the Grande Instance Tribunal of Boulogne sur Mer, France [2014] EWHC 2324 (Admin) at para 12 Ouseley J expressed his concern that where there has been a delay prior to a conviction in absentia the requesting judicial authority could, in effect, prevent section 14 from being argued.
In his view it would be an unfair and prejudicial outcome if there were no other means whereby the section 14 facts could be given full rein.
He had reservations about using article 8 as some sort of kitchen sink for all aspects of extradition that cannot properly be considered under other headings (at para 14).
However, he dealt with the matter on the basis that there would be no injustice to the appellant through consideration of injustice and oppression to the full extent using the article 8 framework.
Similarly, in Wisniewski v Regional Court of Wroclaw, Poland [2016] EWHC 386 (Admin); [2016] 1 WLR 3750 the Divisional Court (Lloyd Jones LJ and Holroyde J) considered that in such circumstances the human rights examination under section 21 would provide a safety net which would permit the effect of passage of time to be brought into account.
In Farzal Rahman v County Court of Boulogne sur Mer, France [2014] EWHC 4143 (Admin) Blake J adopted a rather different approach.
There a conviction warrant was founded on a conviction in absentia.
It was common ground that Mr Rahman had had no notice of the proceedings leading to conviction and that the conviction could be set aside on his demand.
The judge was referred to Campbell and Cousins and was invited by counsel for the appellant to look at the full period of the delay either on abuse of process grounds or on article 8 grounds.
The judge said that he shared the reservations of Ouseley J about simply proceeding down the article 8 route as a catch all where the central point the appellant wanted to make was the change of circumstances caused by the passage of time since the offence was first committed.
Noting that the definition of unlawfully at large in section 68A of the 2003 Act did not apply to section 14, he considered that it was necessary to give it a meaning which avoided the absurdity of effectively preventing the appellant from pleading delay at all.
He concluded that: [I]n effect a person remains accused of a crime for the purposes of the oppression limb of section 14 unless or until there has been a conviction from which he was required to participate from which he has absconded himself and is therefore a fugitive from justice.
Such an approach avoids having to shoehorn the present problem either into abuse of process questions, where there is a more rigorous test and a requirement generally of absence of good faith or simply leaving it to a factor in the article 8 balance. (sic) I sympathise with the judges wish to find an interpretation of section 14 which would enable him to do justice in the particular case.
However, I consider that this strenuous reading is inconsistent with the scheme of the Framework Decision and Part 1 of the 2003 Act.
It seems to me that until such time