 12 May 2008 (the date of conviction by the District Court) onwards.
He concluded that the circumstances of the delay did not justify a finding that it would be unjust or oppressive to return the appellant to the Czech Republic.
He went on to consider whether the return of the appellant would infringe the appellants article 8 rights and, in that context, considered the delay since the offences were committed.
He, nevertheless, concluded that the public interest factors in favour of extradition outweighed the considerations relating to the appellants family and private life, even when the delay was taken into account.
The appellants surrender to the Czech Republic was ordered pursuant to section 21(3) of the 2003 Act.
The appellant sought to appeal against the order for his extradition.
On 21 June 2017 Collins J granted permission to appeal.
On 27 September 2017 Sir Wyn Williams, sitting as a judge of the High Court, upheld the District Judges ruling that it was the conviction provisions of section 14(b) which were applicable, with the result that the passage of time to be considered under section 11(1)(c) and section 14 was restricted to the period since conviction on 12 May 2008.
The judge concluded that the extradition of the appellant would not be unjust or oppressive.
He did, however, address the issue of delay further in the context of the article 8 challenge.
He noted that the District Judge was fully aware of the very long delay between the offending and the hearing before him.
Sir Wyn considered that the delay which had occurred was a powerful factor militating against extradition.
However, he could not conclude that the District Judges decision on the article 8 issue could be said to be wrong.
Accordingly, he dismissed the appeal pursuant to section 27(1)(b) of the 2003 Act.
On 7 November 2017 the High Court certified the following point of law of general public importance: In circumstances where an individual has been convicted, but that conviction is not final because he has an unequivocal right to a retrial after surrender, is he accused pursuant to section 14(a) of the 2003 Act, or unlawfully at large pursuant to section 14(b) for the purposes of considering the passage of time bar to surrender? On the same date the High Court refused permission to appeal to the Supreme Court.
On 23 March 2018 the Supreme Court (Lord Mance, Lord Hughes and Lady Black) granted permission to appeal to the Supreme Court.
The relevant legislation
The European Union system for the surrender of a requested person for the purposes of conducting a criminal prosecution or executing a custodial sentence or detention order is established by the Framework Decision as amended.
The recitals in the preamble make clear that its objective is to abolish extradition between member states and replace it by a system of surrender between judicial authorities.
It was intended that the introduction of a new simplified system of surrender of sentenced or suspected persons for the purposes of execution or prosecution should make it possible to remove the complexity and potential for delay inherent in previous extradition procedures (recital (5)).
The mechanism of the EAW is based on a high level of confidence between member states (recital (10)).
In relations between member states the EAW was intended to replace all the previous instruments concerning extradition (recital (11)).
Article 1 of the Framework Decision provides in relevant part: Definition of the European arrest warrant and obligation to execute it Article 1 1.
The European arrest warrant is a judicial decision issued by a member state with a view to the arrest and surrender by another member state of a requested person, for the purposes of conducting a criminal prosecution or executing a custodial sentence or detention order. 2.
Member states shall execute any European arrest