 (Incapacitated Person: Withdrawal of Treatment) [2017] EWCOP 18; [2018] 1 WLR 465, the court was concerned with the withdrawal of CANH from a woman who was suffering from Huntingtons disease and was in a minimally conscious state.
Her family, her clinicians, and a specialist from whom a second opinion had been sought, were agreed that it was in her best interests not to continue with treatment, notwithstanding that that would result in her death, and a declaration was made to that effect.
Peter Jackson J responded to a request from the parties for clarification as to whether legal proceedings were, in fact, necessary prior to withholding or withdrawing CANH when an incapacitated persons family and clinicians agreed that CANH was no longer in the persons best interests.
At the time he decided the case, Practice Direction 9E (which had been influential in Baker Js decision) was still effective, but his view differed from Baker Js.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Practice Direction, he held (paras 37 and 38) that, on the facts with which he was dealing, the decision about what was in Ms best interests could lawfully have been taken by her treating doctors, having fully consulted her family and having acted in accordance with the MCA 2005 and with recognised medical standards, without reference to the court.
He pointed out that there was no statutory obligation to bring the case to court and gave his view that none of the cases and materials cited in his judgment sustained the proposition that a court decision was necessary as a matter of law rather than of practice.
He did not consider that article 2 of the ECHR mandated court oversight, taking the view that the approach taken in Ms case fully respected her article 2 rights in a fashion contemplated in Lambert v France (2016) 62 EHRR 2.
He drew attention to the fact that, overwhelmingly, treatment decisions up to and including the withholding of life support are taken by clinicians and families working together in accordance with good practice, with no suggestion of mandatory court involvement, and expressed the view that it was anomalous to require it for a limited subset of cases (those involving PVS or MCS) which were not sufficiently different to justify different treatment.
Identifying another anomaly, he also observed that there was no suggestion that the court should be involved where there was a valid and applicable advance decision, yet the grave consequences of the decision and the risk of error were no different in such cases from cases where there was no advance decision.
He also referred to the deterrent effect of costly and time consuming proceedings, both on the individual case and on the patient population in general.
He considered that a mandatory litigation requirement may deflect clinicians and families from making true best interests decisions and in some cases lead to inappropriate treatment continuing by default.
He gave Ms case as an example, in that she continued to receive CANH that neither her doctors nor her family thought in her best interests for almost a year until a court decision was eventually sought.
He made quite clear, however, that the court is always available where there is disagreement, or where it is felt for some other reason that an application should be made, although this would only arise in rare cases.
Strasbourg jurisprudence
Since Mr Gordon relies upon the ECHR as one foundation for his argument that there is a requirement to apply to court for a declaration in every case, it is important to look at the case law of the ECtHR on the subject.
I have already referred to the case of Burke in 2006.
The case of Lambert v France (2016) 62 EHRR 2 is also very much in point, although it received only a passing mention in the appellants written case.
If there were any doubt as to its