 of the court would be valuable.
And if a dispute has arisen and cannot be resolved, it must inevitably be put before the court.
Mr Gordon characterises Lambert as a case about the facts, which tells us nothing about first principles.
He submits, also, that the article 6 argument that he advances was not put to the court in this or any of the other ECtHR cases.
This is not how I see the case of Lambert or the ECtHR jurisprudence generally.
The Lambert decision forms part of a consistent line of Strasbourg decisions and it tells us, in my view, that the ECtHR does not regard it as problematic, in principle, that a decision to withhold or withdraw CANH from patient with a prolonged disorder of consciousness should be made by a doctor, without obligatory court involvement.
If there be any doubt about the implications of this for the present case, reference to Burke v The United Kingdom removes it.
The ECtHR was there required to consider our domestic provisions, even before they were bolstered by the MCA 2005, specifically focusing on the GMC guidance then in force.
Breaches of articles 2, 3, 8 and 14 were alleged, and it was one of the applicants complaints that the GMC guidance failed to spell out a legal requirement to obtain prior judicial sanction.
The ECtHR proceeded upon the basis that article 2 imposes positive obligations on the State to make regulations compelling hospitals to adopt appropriate measures for the protection of their patients lives, yet no suggestion was made that such regulations were lacking in the United Kingdom.
The argument that there was insufficient protection because a doctor might decide to withdraw CANH without being under an obligation to obtain the approval of the court was expressly rejected, and I have already cited (see para 33 above) what the ECtHR said in so doing.
Recognising the practical realities, it observed that a more stringent legal duty would be prescriptively burdensome, resulting in some medical staff being constantly in court, and would not necessarily entail any greater protection.
As for the Official Solicitors article 6 argument, even if that particular argument was not put before the ECtHR in terms, the question of hearing rights was an obvious component in the arguments that were advanced in Burkes case, and there is no reason to suppose that the outcome would have been different if there had been a specific article 6 complaint.
The same might be said of Lamberts case, where article 6 was indeed referred to, but only by way of a complaint that the doctor who took the decision was not impartial, not as part of a wider argument that court involvement is required in every case.
Moreover, I would accept Mr Sachdevas argument that what engages article 6 is a disagreement or a question of law and/or fact in dispute, and that, in the light of the safeguards to be found in the MCA 2005 and the Code, together with the professional guidance, there is no basis for the Official Solicitors suggested approach of engaging article 6 by assuming in every case that there is a dispute.
Of the Official Solicitors ECHR arguments, it only remains to deal with article 14.
It is not in point, in the present case, in my view.
The analogy that Mr Gordon seeks to draw between someone in Mr Ys position and a person with capacity who seeks assistance in bringing his or her life to an end is not a proper analogy.
There is, as Mr Sachdeva says, a critical distinction in both the domestic and the Strasbourg jurisprudence, between an act which constitutes the intentional taking of life and therapeutic abstention from treatment.
We are presently dealing with the latter, whereas assisted dying concerns the former.
It is worth observing also that an article 14 argument was advanced