 for someone in Mr Burkes position, because a doctor might reach a decision to withdraw artificial nutrition and hydration without being obliged to obtain approval from the court, the court saw no problem with a process which involved taking into account the patients previously expressed wishes and those of people close to him, and the opinions of medical personnel, and approaching a court only if there was any conflict or doubt as to the applicants best interests.
It appears to have been content to endorse what the Court of Appeal said: the Court would refer to the Court of Appeals explanation that the courts do not as such authorise medical actions but merely declare whether a proposed action is lawful.
A doctor, fully subject to the sanctions of criminal and civil law, is only therefore recommended to obtain legal advice, in addition to proper supporting medical opinion, where a step is controversial in some way.
Any more stringent legal duty would be prescriptively burdensome doctors, and emergency ward staff in particular, would be constantly in court and would not necessarily entail any greater protection.
The Mental Capacity Act 2005
Since 2007, the MCA 2005 has been the statutory context within which treatment decisions are taken in relation to those who lack capacity, essentially without input from the court, but with the possibility of an application being made to court should the case require it.
It may be helpful briefly to review the main provisions of the Act which are relevant to the present issue, dealing first with provisions of general application and then coming, in para 39, to the provisions dealing with the courts involvement and, in para 40, to the provision requiring the Lord Chancellor to issue codes of practice.
I start with two provisions which place the best interests of the person who lacks capacity at the heart of the process.
Section 1(5) provides that an act done, or a decision made, under the Act for or on behalf of a person who lacks capacity must be done, or made, in his best interests.
Section 4 sets out how someone determining, for the purposes of the Act, what is in a persons best interests must go about the task.
All the relevant circumstances must be considered, and the steps listed in the section must be taken.
They include considering, so far as reasonably ascertainable, the persons wishes and feelings, and the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence his decision if he had capacity, as well as the other factors that he would be likely to consider if he were able to do so.
Also to be taken into account are the views of various specified people who have some responsibility for or are interested in his welfare.
There is a specific subsection, section 4(5), dealing with a determination that relates to life saving treatment; it provides that in such cases, in considering whether the treatment is in the best interests of the person concerned, the person making the determination must not be motivated by a desire to bring about his death.
Section 5 allows carers, including health professionals, to carry out acts in connection with personal care, health care, or treatment of a person who lacks capacity to consent.
It provides a significant degree of protection from liability, provided that the act is done in the reasonable belief that capacity is lacking and that the act is in the patients best interests.
If these conditions are satisfied, no more liability is incurred than would have been incurred if the patient had had capacity to consent and had done so.
There are provisions of the Act which enable someone to cater in advance for the possibility that he or she will, in future, lose the capacity to make decisions about his or her own welfare.
One such provision is section 9 which deals with lasting powers of attorney, under which the donor gives the donee authority to make decisions about the donors personal welfare.
Such a power of attorney is subject to the restrictions