 to patients with PVS and MCS but not for a patient with a different condition.
Similarly, it can find no logical reason why one form of medical treatment, CANH, is treated differently from other forms of medical treatment such as artificial ventilation.
The submissions of the ICS and FICM are illuminating as to what occurs in units delivering critical care to patients.
Most admissions to such units occur as an emergency, without the patient having made any advance decision about treatment, and possibly already so unwell that he or she has impaired consciousness or is unable to communicate wishes.
Most decisions relating to medical treatment in the critical care setting, including as to whether life sustaining treatment is withheld or withdrawn, have to be made without the participation of the patient.
They are, we are told, almost invariably taken on the basis of (in England & Wales) best interests and (in Scotland) benefit, on the basis of consensual decision making as between the clinical team and the patients family and carers.
In that critical care setting, CANH is not considered differently from any other form of life sustaining treatment.
This is said to reflect the reality in critically ill patients that it is the withdrawal of invasive or non invasive ventilation, vasoactive medical and renal replacement therapy, and the double effect from administration of medications to ensure patient comfort towards the end of life, that leads to the natural death of the patient, rather than cessation of CANH.
It is likely, where CANH is withdrawn from a patient who is clinically stable but suffering from a prolonged disorder of consciousness, that death will result from the withdrawal of CANH, so to this extent there is a difference between the two groups of patients.
However, once CANH is seen as medical treatment, there is a parallel between the cases.
In any event, I have difficulty in accepting that there are readily apparent and watertight categories of patient, with PDOC patients clearly differentiated from, say, patients with a degenerative neurological condition or critically ill patients, in such a way as to justify judicial involvement being required for the PDOC patients but not for the others.
The dilemmas facing the medical team and those close to the patient may well be very similar in each of these cases.
It would be a mistake to think, for example, that the intensive care doctor simply does whatever is necessary to stop the patient dying, no matter what the cost to the patient, any more than does the doctor looking after a PDOC patient or the stroke patient or the patient with Huntingtons disease.
In all of these cases, the medical team take their decisions as to treatment, whether it is CANH, or some other form of treatment such as artificial ventilation or cardio pulmonary resuscitation or the administration of antibiotics, by determining what is in the patients best interests.
In so doing, the doctors will often have difficult diagnoses to make, reaching a prognosis may be challenging, and the evaluation of the patients best interests may not be entirely straightforward.
All these tasks may call for considerable professional skill and individual judgement.
Furthermore, although the Official Solicitor submits that it should be possible, with proper case management, to obtain a decision from the court speedily, giving an example of a case which was concluded within eight weeks, I fear that that is an over optimistic view of the situation.
I note that even in that case, the delay would have been about six weeks longer had it not been for the parties shortening their time estimate (it would seem in part by removing from it the time for the judge to prepare the judgment) and another case coming out of the judges list.
Even allowing for Peter Jackson J to have over estimated the precise period of delay in obtaining an order in In re M (Incapacitated Person: Withdrawal of Treatment), the facts of that case exemplify the dangers