 the court.
Such was the situation in Mr Ys case, she considered, and accordingly she granted the following declaration: It is not mandatory to bring before the court the withdrawal of CANH from Mr Y who has a prolonged disorder of consciousness in circumstances where the clinical team and Mr Ys family are agreed that it is not in his best interests that he continues to receive that treatment.
The judge granted the Official Solicitor permission to appeal and certified the case, pursuant to section 12 of the Administration of Justice Act 1969, as appropriate for an appeal directly to the Supreme Court.
In case the result of the appeal was that proceedings should be brought in the Court of Protection, the judge gave directions so that any such proceedings could progress without delay.
So it was that the Official Solicitor obtained a further expert report, from a different neuro rehabilitation consultant.
However, although CANH had been continued pending the appeal, on 22 December 2017 Mr Y died, having developed acute respiratory sepsis.
The expert instructed by the Official Solicitor could only base his report upon documentation, including Mr Ys medical records.
In the report, he referred to the difficulty in diagnosing vegetative and minimally conscious states, and gave his opinion that, had Mr Y survived, further assessments, over a longer period of time, would have been required in order to reach a reliable conclusion that he was in a permanent vegetative state.
Notwithstanding that, in view of Mr Ys death, the proceedings could no longer serve any purpose for him and his family, this court determined that the appeal should go ahead, because of the general importance of the issues raised by the case.
Accordingly, the court has received full argument from Mr Gordon QC and Ms Paterson for the Official Solicitor, and Mr Sachdeva QC and Ms Dobson for the first two respondents (the NHS Trust which manages the regional hyper acute rehabilitation unit at which Mr Y was a patient until he was discharged to a nursing home and the Clinical Commissioning Group which funded the nursing home).
Written submissions were permitted from the four intervenors.
Mrs Y understandably felt unable to participate in the proceedings at what is an exceptionally sad and difficult time for her and her family.
The opposing arguments in brief summary
I will look at the Official Solicitors case in detail later, but it may help to introduce the issues now by means of the briefest of summaries.
The Official Solicitor submits that, in every case, court approval must be sought before CANH can be withdrawn from a person with PDOC, thus ensuring that the patients vulnerable position is properly safeguarded by representation through the Official Solicitor, who can obtain independent expert medical reports about his condition and prognosis, and make submissions to the court on his behalf if appropriate.
The Official Solicitor derives this requirement essentially from the common law and/or the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), in particular article 2 and article 6.
In his submission, his position finds support in the Mental Capacity Act Code of Practice, issued on 23 April 2007 pursuant to section 42(1) of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 (MCA 2005).
He submits that it is irrelevant that neither the MCA 2005 nor the Court of Protection Rules specifically impose the requirement for which he contends.
The first and second respondents disagree, submitting that neither the common law nor the ECHR imposes a universal requirement to obtain court approval prior to the withdrawal of CANH.
The case law preceding the MCA 2005
The MCA 2005 was a watershed in the law relating to people who lack capacity.
Before the Act, questions relating to the management of the property and affairs of adults who did not have capacity to make their own decisions, were dealt with in the old style