, if there is no involvement of the court, there is a risk of the operation being carried out for improper reasons or with improper motives; and, sixthly, involvement of the court in the decision to operate, if that is the decision reached, should serve to protect the doctor or doctors who perform the operation, and any others who may be concerned in it, from subsequent adverse criticisms or claims.
Lord Goff of Chieveley expressed his own view (p 79) that, as a matter of practice, the operation should not be performed without first obtaining the opinion of the court that the operation is, in the circumstances, in the best interests of the person concerned, by seeking a declaration that the operation is lawful.
In his opinion, the courts guidance should be sought in order to obtain an independent, objective and authoritative view on the lawfulness of the procedure in the particular circumstances of the relevant case, after a hearing at which it can be ensured that there is independent representation on behalf of the person upon whom it is proposed to perform the operation.
Lord Griffiths would have been minded to make it a legal requirement to obtain the sanction of the High Court in all cases, and considered that the common law could be adapted to introduce such a requirement.
However, he recognised that he would be making new law, and that the other members of the House considered that it was not open to them to take that course.
He therefore accepted what Lord Brandon had proposed, but as second best (pp 70 to 71).
Airedale NHS Trust v Bland [1993] AC 789 concerned a man who had been left in a persistent vegetative state after being injured in the Hillsborough disaster.
He could see, hear, and feel nothing and could not communicate in any way.
There was no prospect whatever that he would make any recovery, but if he continued to have the medical care that he was receiving, there was every likelihood that he would maintain his present state of existence for many years to come.
Over three years after the accident, the family and the patients doctors having formed the view that, in these circumstances, it was appropriate to stop prolonging his life by artificial means, an application was made by the hospital authority for declarations that the measures keeping him alive, including artificial nutrition and hydration, could lawfully be discontinued, which would result in his death.
The House of Lords held that the declarations could and should be granted, explaining why in a series of thoughtful speeches considering the moral and legal aspects of the issue.
It is important to set the decision in context.
Recent developments in medical technology, including the development of life support systems, had made it possible for patients who would otherwise have died to survive.
As Lord Browne Wilkinson said (p 878C et seq), those recent developments had fundamentally affected previous certainties about what was life and what was death, and meant that the time and manner of someones death might no longer be dictated by nature but might instead be determined by a human decision.
Wholly new ethical and social problems had been raised by the developments, and society was not of one mind about them.
It was not a foregone conclusion that the withdrawal of artificial life support measures could be tolerated at all by the criminal and civil law, and the decision to endorse the declarations that had been granted by the President of the Family Division was only arrived at after an extensive review of the law, and then only on a narrow basis tied firmly to the facts of the case.
Their Lordships were at pains to emphasise that the case was an extreme one, it having been overwhelmingly established that the patient was, and would remain, insensate.
They were conscious that there would be cases in which the facts were less extreme and the issues, legal and ethical, even more difficult.
They did