 so as to limit applications for declarations to those cases in which there is a special need for the procedure to be invoked.
Lord Keith said (p 859): The decision whether or not the continued treatment and care of a PVS patient confers any benefit on him is essentially one for the practitioners in charge of his case.
The question is whether any decision that it does not and that the treatment and care should therefore be discontinued should as a matter of routine be brought before the Family Division for endorsement or the reverse.
The view taken by the President of the Family Division and the Court of Appeal was that it should, at least for the time being and until a body of experience and practice has been built up which might obviate the need for application in every case.
As Sir Thomas Bingham MR said, this would be in the interests of the protection of patients, the protection of doctors, the reassurance of the patients families and the reassurance of the public.
I respectfully agree that these considerations render desirable the practice of application.
Lord Lowry said (p 875):
Lord Browne Wilkinson said (p 885): Procedurally I can see no present alternative to an application to the court such as that made in the present case.
This view is reinforced for me when I reflect, against the background of your Lordships conclusions of law, that, in the absence of an application, the doctor who proposes the cessation of life supporting care and treatment on the ground that their continuance would not be in the patients best interests will have reached that conclusion himself and will be judge in his own cause unless and until his chosen course of action is challenged in criminal or civil proceedings.
A practical alternative may, however, be evolved through the practice of the Family Division and with the help of the Medical Ethics Committee, which has already devoted so much thought to the problem, and possibly of Parliament through legislation.
I am very conscious that I have reached my conclusions on narrow, legalistic, grounds which provide no satisfactory basis for the decision of cases which will arise in the future where the facts are not identical.
I must again emphasise that this is an extreme case where it can be overwhelmingly proved that the patient is and will remain insensate: he neither feels pain from treatment nor will feel pain in dying and has no prospect of any medical care improving his condition.
Unless, as I very much hope, Parliament reviews the law, the courts will be faced with cases where the chances of improvement are slight, or the patient has very slight sensate awareness.
I express no view on what should be the answer in such circumstances: my decision does not cover such a case.
I therefore consider that, for the foreseeable future, doctors would be well advised in each case to apply to the court for a declaration as to the legality of any proposed discontinuance of life support where there has been no valid consent by or on behalf of the patient to such discontinuance.
Lord Mustill did not say anything specifically on the topic, but he spoke of his profound misgivings about almost every aspect of this case (p 899), and, as the comment that I have already quoted above shows, he urged that matters should proceed with the greatest caution.
The practice of seeking declarations as to the lawfulness of medical treatment became firmly established in the years after In re F and the Bland case, as can be seen from the comment of Hale J, as Baroness Hale then was, in In re S (Hospital Patient: Courts Jurisdiction) [1995] Fam 26, that it has been followed in many cases (p 31E).
The next case which needs to be considered is R (Burke) v General Medical Council (Official Solicitor and others intervening) [2006] QB 273.
There,