: good practice in decision making (published May 2010) iii) The report of the Royal College of Physicians (the RCP) entitled Prolonged disorders of consciousness: National clinical guidelines (the report of a working party in 2013) iv) An Interim Guidance document produced in December 2017 by the GMC, BMA and RCP entitled Decisions to withdraw clinically assisted nutrition and hydration (CANH) from patients in permanent vegetative state (PVS) or minimally conscious state (MCS) following sudden onset profound brain injury.
The last document referred to in the previous paragraph was published after the decisions at first instance in the present case, the Court of Appeals decision in Briggs, and Peter Jackson Js decision in In re M.
It was not meant to override the existing guidance from each of the three bodies, but to supplement it, responding to the statements in those cases that there is no requirement for treating clinicians to seek court approval to withdrawing CANH, and to the withdrawal of Practice Direction 9E.
It summarises the recent developments in the law, and also the views of the GMC, BMA, and RCP about good clinical and professional practice in the area.
It is intended that before long it will be replaced with a new final guidance, which (the introduction to the Interim Guidance says) will recommend safeguards to ensure that a robust and thorough assessment process continues to be followed prior to the withdrawal of CANH.
It is necessary to look in more detail at this body of professional guidance since it has a very important part to play in ensuring the proper protection of patients and in maintaining the confidence of the public in the health care system.
Whatever impression might be conveyed by terms such as guidance and guidelines, the practice set out in the various documents has significant weight.
This is perhaps particularly so in relation to guidance emanating from the GMC, which has a special role in providing guidance for the medical profession.
It was established by statute, the Medical Act 1983, with the over arching objective of protecting the public, and is charged with setting and maintaining the standards that doctors across the UK must follow, where necessary taking action in relation to a doctor if he or she is found to be falling below the required standard.
Its statutory powers under the Medical Act include power to issue advice for members of the medical profession on standards of professional conduct, standards of professional performance and medical ethics (section 35).
The GMCs 2010 guide to good practice draws upon the domestic and European jurisprudence and covers the matters that one would therefore expect.
I will not rehearse all those matters here, particularly given that guidance is continuing to evolve, and will simply give a broad indication of the nature and ambit of the document.
It provides the doctor with a decision making model, applicable where an adult lacks the capacity to decide about treatment and care.
As part of the decision making process, the doctor is to: find out about any valid advance decision made by the patient or consider what treatments are clinically appropriate and likely to i) make an assessment of the patients condition, ii) benefit the patient, iii) anyone who has legal authority to decide for him, iv) as far as practical and appropriate, consult members of the healthcare team and those close to the patient and, when deciding about treatment, take their views into account, v) take steps towards the appointment of an IMCA where appropriate, vi) attempt to resolve disagreements about what treatment and care would be of overall benefit to the patient, seeking legal advice on applying to court for an independent ruling if agreement is not reached.
The guide requires a record to be made of decisions about treatment, and of who was consulted in relation to the decisions.
There is a section specifically addressing CANH, particularly stressing the need to listen to