 in Burkes case before the ECtHR and was rejected as manifestly ill founded.
The argument was to the effect that the applicant was treated less favourably on account of his disease than others who need CANH but are not suffering from a disease that causes them to lose competence to influence their treatment.
The court observed that neither a competent nor an incompetent patient can require a doctor to give treatment that the doctor considers is not clinically justified, thus no difference of treatment arises.
In so far as a competent patient is able to participate in the consultation process and an incompetent patient is not, the court said that the patients are not in a relatively similar situation.
It remains to stand back from this intense focus upon the law, in order to consider the issue in its wider setting.
In so doing, it is necessary to exercise the restraint that is required of a court when it ventures into areas of social and ethical uncertainty, and especially when it does so in the abstract, setting out views which will be of general application (as is necessarily so in this case) rather than resolving a clearly defined issue of law or fact that has arisen between the litigants appearing before it.
Lord Goff remarked, in the passage at p 871 of the Bland case which I have set out at para 22 above, upon how frequently doctors have to make decisions which may affect the continued survival of their patients, and how experienced they are in this respect.
Judges have also developed experience in dealing with life and death decisions, but it is experience of a different sort from that of the medical team which actually treats the patient, and of the professional bodies responsible for regulating and guiding them, and this limitation must be recognised and taken into account.
It has been of particular assistance to have, from the written submissions of the intervenors, an insight into the practicalities of caring for patients who are critically ill, and also some idea of the large number of patients who might be affected in some way by the decision in the instant case.
It is important to acknowledge that CANH is more readily perceived as basic care than, say, artificial ventilation or the administration of antibiotics, and withholding or withdrawing it can therefore cause some people a greater unease.
However, it was decided as far back as the Bland case that CANH is in fact to be seen as medical treatment.
It is not easy to explain, therefore, why it should be treated differently from other forms of life sustaining treatment, and yet that is the consequence of the legal position for which the Official Solicitor contends.
Furthermore, the Official Solicitors focus is on only one sub set of patients who are, for one reason or another, unable to take their own decisions about their medical care and in respect of whom life sustaining treatment is under consideration.
This is a point that Peter Jackson J made in In re M (Incapacitated Person: Withdrawal of Treatment), and it emerges with some force from the written submissions of the BMA and of the ICS and the FICM.
It is not only those, such as Mr Y, who suffer an acute episode and are then stabilised, who may require CANH.
The need for it can arise also, for example, in the advanced stages of a degenerative neurological condition such as Huntingtons disease or multiple sclerosis, or in the advanced stages of dementia, where there may be a recognised downward trajectory.
Presently, the BMA say, in the case of patients who have suffered a severe stroke, or are significantly cognitively impaired but conscious, or are suffering from a degenerative neurological condition or other condition with a recognised downward trajectory, decisions to withhold or withdraw CANH are made on a regular basis without recourse to the courts.
The BMA can see no principled or logical reason for requiring court review in relation