right to life), article 6 (right to a fair trial), article 8 (right to respect for private and family life) and article 14 (prohibition of discrimination) as further support for the assertion that court involvement is a necessary component in securing the patients rights.
The jurisprudence of the ECtHR makes clear, he says, that if there is doubt as to the medical position or the patients best interests, there must be a real remedy and, in cases such as the present, only a court application will reveal whether there is doubt.
Here, without the Official Solicitors full participation in the present proceedings, it was impossible to know whether or not there was any dispute about the medical evidence or about Mr Ys best interests, and as a result Mr Ys article 6 rights were eroded to the point that his article 2 rights were afforded no effective protection.
An argument is also advanced in reliance upon article 14, which it is said will be breached because a patient in Mr Ys position unjustifiably has less protection than an adult who has capacity and is terminally ill, the latter having the protection in relation to assisted dying afforded by section 2 of the Suicide Act 1961 (which makes it an offence to do an act capable of encouraging or assisting a suicide).
It is important to note some of the special features of PDOC cases which in the Official Solicitors submission necessitate court involvement.
He stresses the particular vulnerability of patients with PDOC, the difficulty in assessing the level of a persons consciousness, and the dangers of a wrong diagnosis or a wrong conclusion about what is in the persons best interests.
He invites attention to examples of diagnostic errors in the decided cases where, for example, a patient has been thought to be in a permanent vegetative state but found later to be in a minimally conscious state.
He submits that, although decisions about withdrawing treatment have to be made in relation both to patients with PDOC, and patients in intensive care with life limiting illnesses or injuries, the two categories of patient are different.
The patient with PDOC may be clinically stable and may live for a prolonged period with only appropriate nursing care, hydration and nutrition, whereas the patient in intensive care may require more active medical intervention and support and may face death within hours or days.
Furthermore, it is suggested that there is a particular concern about the morality of withdrawing CANH, which many might see as basic care, as opposed to certain other types of treatment.
Lord Brandons reasoning at p 56 of In re F (Mental Patient: Sterilisation) (supra) (where he identified a number of special features which made the involvement of the court highly desirable) applies equally to PDOC cases, it is submitted.
Similarly in point is Lord Lowrys concern, expressed in the Bland case (supra), that without court oversight, the doctor will be judge in his own cause.
In addition, there is a danger, it is said, that the doctor may persuade family members who might not have the resources (emotional or financial) to question the doctors decision.
Far from the need for independent scrutiny having diminished since the Bland case, Mr Gordon submits that it has increased as the growing understanding of disorders of consciousness has revealed the shortcomings of the assessments that have to be carried out.
Discussion
Permeating the determination of the issue that arises in this case must be a full recognition of the value of human life, and of the respect in which it must be held.
No life is to be relinquished easily.
As Baroness Hale said at para 35 of Aintree University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust v James (supra): The authorities are all agreed that the starting point is a strong presumption that it is in a persons best interests to stay alive.
And