 direction provides valuable procedural guidance but should not be interpreted as introducing a requirement that all cases where a decision is to be made about the withdrawal of CANH must come before a court.
Having rejected the argument that medical treatment decisions could be taken, in a case such as that which the court was considering, under section 21A of the MCA 2005, King LJ set out in para 108 what, in her view, was the proper approach to a medical treatment case.
In so far as relevant to the present appeal, she said: (i) If the medical treatment proposed is not in dispute, then, regardless of whether it involves the withdrawal of treatment from a person who is minimally conscious or in a persistent vegetative state, it is a decision as to what treatment is in Ps best interests and can be taken by the treating doctors who then have immunity pursuant to section 5 of the MCA. (ii) If there is a dispute in relation to medical treatment of an incapacitated person, and, specifically, where there is a doubt as to whether CANH should be withdrawn, then the matter should be referred to the court for a personal welfare determination under sections 15 to 17 of the MCA.
In similar vein, Sir Brian Leveson P said, at para 114, that [i]f agreement between the authorities and the family is possible, litigation will not be necessary.
Finally, in terms of the post MCA 2005 domestic case law, I would refer to two decisions of the Court of Protection.
It is important to do so, because judges of the Family Division, who sit also in the Court of Protection, deal regularly with the very difficult welfare decisions which have to be taken as people approach the end of their lives, and this experience gives weight to their views.
In In re M (Adult Patient) (Minimally Conscious State: Withdrawal of Treatment) [2011] EWHC 2443 (Fam); [2012] 1 WLR 1653, a case concerning a woman in a minimally conscious state, Baker J expressed the view (paras 78, 82 and 257) that all decisions about the proposed withholding or withdrawal of ANH from a person in a persistent vegetative state or minimally conscious state should always be brought to the court.
By this, it can be seen from para 257 that he meant that such decisions must be referred to court.
He considered that the legal position has been clear since the decision in the Bland case and, in so far as there was any difference between the Code (which might have suggested that applications to court were not necessary unless the doctors assessment of the patients best interests was disputed) and the position set out in Practice Direction 9E, it was the Practice Direction which reflected the law.
Our attention was invited to a fairly recent paper entitled A matter of life and death (2017) 43 J Med Ethics 427 written by Baker J from which it appears that, at least up to that point, he continued to be of the view that he expressed in In re M. He acknowledged that the time may come when applications to court were only necessary where there was a dispute, but did not believe that time had yet been reached.
In his view, at p 434, medical science and the law were still evolving and until such time as there was greater clarity and understanding about the disorders of consciousness, and about the legal and ethical principles to be applied, there remains a need for independent oversight, and applications to the court should continue to be obligatory in all cases where withdrawal of ANH is proposed.
He did, however, identify an urgent need for a more streamlined procedure for court resolution, avoiding undue cost and delay.
In In re M