 yet there may come a time when life has to be relinquished because that is in the best interests of the patient.
The situation of Mr Y, and the ordeal through which his family has been going, serve as a solemn reminder of how illness may confront any one of us at any time and of the difficulties that face the patient, his family, and the medical staff whose job it is to do the best that they can for them.
As Lord Browne Wilkinson said in Blands case (p 877), the questions for us are questions of law, [b]ut behind the questions of law lie moral, ethical, medical and practical issues of fundamental importance to society.
The weight of that consideration anchors the legal decisions which I would make.
Before turning to the central questions in the case, it is worth restating the basic position with regard to medical treatment, because it is upon this foundation that everything else is built.
Although the concentration is upon the withdrawal of CANH, it must be kept in mind that the fundamental question facing a doctor, or a court, considering treatment of a patient who is not able to make his or her own decision is not whether it is lawful to withdraw or withhold treatment, but whether it is lawful to give it.
It is lawful to give treatment only if it is in the patients best interests.
Accordingly, if the treatment would not be in the patients best interests, then it would be unlawful to give it, and therefore lawful, and not a breach of any duty to the patient, to withhold or withdraw it.
For a recent authoritative statement to this effect, see the Aintree case, although I would add that if a doctor carries out treatment in the reasonable belief that it will be in the patients best interests, he or she will be entitled to the protection from liability conferred by section 5 of the MCA 2005 (see para 36 above).
It is also important to keep in mind that a patient cannot require a doctor to give any particular form of treatment, and nor can a court (see, for example, R (Burke) v General Medical Council at paras 50 and 55, and the Aintree case at para 18).
I turn then to the core issue, commencing with a consideration of what, if any, requirements are imposed by domestic law.
This consideration must start with the Bland case.
In my view, there can be no question of the House of Lords there having imposed a legal requirement that in all cases of PVS (or any other form of prolonged disorder of consciousness) an application must be made to the court before CANH can be withdrawn.
The scene had been set in In re F (Mental Patient: Sterilisation), where consideration was given to whether it was necessary to seek a declaration before carrying out a sterilisation operation on a woman who could not consent to the procedure herself.
This was the case in which Lord Brandon set out the six features which made it highly desirable to seek the involvement of the court as a matter of good practice, five of which features the Official Solicitor relies upon in his present argument.
That none of their Lordships in In re F considered that they were laying down a common law requirement to apply to the court is put beyond doubt by the speech of Lord Griffiths.
It will be recalled that he would have been inclined to make it a legal requirement to seek the sanction of the court in all cases, and thought that the common law could be adapted to do so, but was deterred because the other members of the House considered that this would be making new law and inappropriate.
In re F was very much in the minds of their Lordships in the Bland case, as can be seen from their speeches, and the approach they took to the question of court involvement was