 and consider the views of the patient and those close to them, and to explain the issues to be considered.
The doctor is alerted to the need, in the event of disagreement about CANH, to ensure that the patient or someone acting on their behalf is advised on how to access their own legal advice or representation.
Where the patient is not expected to die in any event in hours or days, but the doctor judges that CANH would not be of overall benefit to him, all reasonable steps must be taken to get a second opinion from a senior clinician who is not already directly involved but who should examine the patient.
If that is not practically possible in exceptional circumstances, advice from a colleague must still be sought.
As to patients in PVS or a condition closely resembling it, the guide says that the courts require that you approach them for a ruling.
This is, however, modified in the Interim Guidance of December 2017 which proceeds upon the basis that there will be cases in which no court application is required.
The December 2017 Interim Guidance starts by identifying that a best interests decision cannot be taken for the patient where he has made a valid and applicable advance decision to refuse treatment which covers CANH, or where an attorney appointed under a suitable lasting power of attorney makes the decision.
It then goes on to say that where there is disagreement about best interests or the decision is finely balanced, an application should be made to court for a declaration as to whether CANH continues to be in the patients best interests.
Then, dealing with the remainder of cases, the guidance sets out the steps that should be taken to ensure that there is proper consultation prior to determining what is in the patients best interests.
These include ensuring that the RCP guidelines have been followed regarding assessment, with the assessment carried out by professionals with the appropriate training, that guidance in the Mental Capacity Act Code, and from the BMA, RCP and/or GMC has been followed, that there have been formal, documented best interests meetings with those who care for the patient and are interested in his or her welfare, and that an IMCA is consulted where necessary.
The doctor is told to find out as much as possible about the patients values, wishes, feelings and beliefs.
A second clinical opinion should be sought from a consultant with experience of PDOC who has not been involved in the patients care and who should, so far as reasonably practical, be external to the NHS Trust/Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG); the consultant should examine the patient and review the medical records and the information that has been collected.
There should be very detailed records kept, both a clinical record (covering many specified matters) and a record of discussions, meetings and so on.
The RCP document is lengthy, covering the diagnosis and management of patients with PDOC.
There is a section devoted to assessment, diagnosis, and monitoring, in which the doctor is alerted to the challenges in making an accurate diagnosis and the need for evaluation by a multi disciplinary team of expert clinicians, with the family and close friends of the patient having a key role, and is told that the diagnostic assessment process should follow a structured approach, elements of which are described in some detail.
Another section of the document covers ethical and medico legal issues, also in detail.
The BMA guidance is similarly substantial, its aim being to provide a coherent and comprehensive set of principles which apply to all decisions to withhold or withdraw life prolonging treatment (Introduction p xiii).
It should be noted that the Faculty of Intensive Care Medicine (FICM) and the Intensive Care Society (ICS) have also issued joint recommendations in the form of Guidelines for the provision of intensive care services; these include recommendations about end of life care.
The submissions on behalf of the Official Solicitor
Considerations of human