 CANH, unless there is a valid advance directive.
There is no doubt, therefore, that Peter Jackson J will have been made aware of the arguments that ran counter to the view he ultimately formed.
Mr Gordon advances four respects in which he says the judge went wrong, namely: (1) he failed to recognise that PDOC patients are distinct from other patients, (2) he mistakenly attributed the delay to the proceedings when the majority of it appears to have been caused by other factors, (3) he failed to see that matters are very different when an advance decision has been made pursuant to section 24 of MCA 2005, and (4) he failed to recognise that if there is no requirement for court involvement, the article 2 requirement identified in Lambert v France for regulations compelling hospitals to adopt appropriate measures for the protection of patients lives will not be satisfied.
For the most part, these are issues which arise as part of the Official Solicitors argument before this court and the reasons why I do not find them compelling will therefore appear in due course.
There being, therefore, in my view, no requirement in domestic law for an application to court of the type that the Official Solicitor says is imperative for the protection of patients, the next question is whether the ECHR generates a need for an equivalent provision to be introduced.
To my mind, the answer is a clear no.
The first port of call is the landmark Grand Chamber case of Lambert v France on the French collective procedure which, it will be recalled, provided for the doctor to take the decision, with no application to court required, yet satisfied the ECtHR as being sufficiently protective of the articles 2 and 8 rights there engaged.
I set out in a little detail earlier (para 71) what the French procedure required and it bears a significant resemblance to the procedure set out in the medical guidance in this country.
In each case, the context for the decision is similar in that the French article R.4127 37 para I says that the doctor can decide to withhold or discontinue treatments qui apparaissent inutiles, disproportionns ou qui nont dautre objet ou effet que le maintien artificiel de la vie, and para 5.31 of the Mental Capacity Act Code speaks of cases where treatment is futile, overly burdensome to the patient or where there is no prospect of recovery.
The French code requires the doctor to consult with the care team, and to take into account any wishes expressed by the patient and the views of people close to him, and the same is required by the MCA 2005 and the medical guidance here.
An independent consultants opinion is required in France and should also be sought in this country.
The court is available if necessary in France as it is here.
As I have said, Lambert v France was not a central feature of the Official Solicitors written case, but as he developed his argument in oral submissions, Mr Gordon sought to distinguish the decision on the basis that France has a formally prescribed procedure with guarantees and we do not.
To comply with the ECHR, a system must have a prescribed procedure, he says, and the sort of professional guidance that we have in this country will not suffice.
The ECtHR has repeatedly set out certain factors that it considers relevant to the question of administering or withdrawing medical treatment.
They can be found in para 143 of Lambert v France (see para 69 above), and also in Glass v United Kingdom, Burke v United Kingdom, Gard v United Kingdom, and Afiri and Biddarri v France.
The first of those factors is the existence in domestic law and practice of a regulatory framework compatible with the requirements of article 2, which no doubt is (quite properly) the foundation of Mr Gordons submission that