 a prescribed procedure is required.
Where I differ from Mr Gordon is in his assertion that the system in this country is not what the ECtHR was looking for.
True it is that in France there is a comprehensive legislative framework, set out in the Code de la sant publique, whereas the same cannot be said for our domestic law.
However, we too have provisions designed to protect the human rights of patients and their families, and I have no difficulty in viewing the combined effect of the MCA 2005, the Mental Capacity Act Code, and the professional guidance, particularly that emanating from the GMC, as a regulatory framework.
The basic protective structure is established by the MCA 2005, which I have described above.
An advance decision about life sustaining treatment can be taken in accordance with sections 24 to 26 and will be respected.
Similarly, a proper role is established for lasting powers of attorney by section 9 and the other sections associated with it.
Where the decision is taken by a doctor, section 5 establishes the conditions that must be satisfied if the doctor is to be protected from liability.
It directs the focus firmly to the best interests of the patient, and that imports the provisions of section 4 which include taking into account the perspective that the patient would have on the decision if he had capacity and the views of those with an interest in the patients welfare.
Section 4(5) imposes the safeguard that the person making the decision must not be motivated by a desire to bring about his death.
Section 37 makes provision for an IMCA to represent the patient where appropriate, and sections 15 to 17 ensure that application can be made to court for a decision about the patients welfare where necessary.
Notwithstanding the contradictions in it with which I have already dealt, the Code contains valuable guidance, and regard must be had to it by virtue of section 42.
The passages that I referred to earlier are only a small fraction of the Code but it will be noted from them that, for example, it commends multi disciplinary meetings when making healthcare and treatment decisions, and speaks about recording decisions and the reasons for them.
It also expressly provides (see para 5.31, quoted above) that when making decisions regarding life sustaining treatment, healthcare and social care staff should refer to relevant professional guidance.
Given the statutory framework within which the GMC operates, I would single out its guidance to the medical profession as undeniably part of the established regulatory framework.
As I have set out above, it has provided its own individual guidance in 2010, and has joined with the BMA and RCP to provide supplementary Interim Guidance in 2017, with final guidance planned for 2018.
The second of the factors to which consistent reference has been made by the ECtHR is whether account has been taken of the patients previously expressed wishes and those of people close to him, as well as the opinions of other medical personnel.
The MCA 2005 requires this to happen, and is reinforced by the professional guidance available to doctors.
The third factor that features consistently in the ECtHRs evaluation is the possibility of approaching the courts in the event of doubts as to the best decision to take in the patients interest and, of course, that possibility exists in this country.
As Peter Jackson J said in In re M (Incapacitated Person: Withdrawal of Treatment) at para 38, those considering withdrawal of CANH should not hesitate to approach the Court of Protection in any case in which it seems to them to be right to do so.
The opportunity to involve the court is available whether or not a dispute is apparent, and is of particular benefit where the decision is a finely balanced one.
No one would discourage an application in any case where it is felt that the assistance