 the court was called upon to determine issues in relation to a patient who was competent but suffering from a congenital degenerative brain condition.
In contrast to the Bland case, the litigation was not brought in order to obtain the courts sanction for treatment being withdrawn, but in order to ensure that it would not be withdrawn.
Nevertheless, the decision covers ground which is of relevance to the present issue.
The patient wished to ensure that the artificial nutrition and hydration that he would need as his degenerative condition progressed would not be withheld by the medical practitioners responsible for his care.
He sought judicial review of the General Medical Councils 2002 guidance, Withholding and Withdrawing Life prolonging Treatments: Good Practice in Decision making, on the basis that it was incompatible with his rights at common law and under the ECHR in, inter alia, failing to spell out a legal requirement to obtain prior judicial sanction for the withdrawal of artificial nutrition and hydration.
The Court of Appeal considered the principles applicable in such circumstances and found the guidance compatible with them.
Giving the judgment of the court, the Master of the Rolls, Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers, considered whether there was in fact a legal requirement to obtain court authorisation before withdrawing artificial nutrition and hydration, as Munby J had determined that there was, in certain circumstances.
The Court of Appeal did not agree that such a requirement existed.
Summarising the legal position, the Master of the Rolls said (para 71): We asked Mr Gordon to explain the nature of the duty to seek the authorisation of the court and he was not able to give us a coherent explanation.
So far as the criminal law is concerned, the court has no power to authorise that which would otherwise be unlawful: see, for instance, the observation of Lord Lowry in Blands case [1993] AC 789, 875H.
Nor can the court render unlawful that which would otherwise be lawful.
The same is true in relation to a possible infringement of civil law.
In Blands case the House of Lords recommended that, as a matter of good practice, reference should be made to the Family Court before withdrawing ANH from a patient in a PVS, until a body of experience and practice had built up.
Plainly there will be occasions in which it will be advisable for a doctor to seek the courts approval before withdrawing ANH in other circumstances, but what justification is there for postulating that he will be under a legal duty so to do? [Original emphasis]
Having considered, but rejected, the possibility that the Human Rights Act 1998 and the decision of the European Court of Human Rights (the ECtHR) in Glass v United Kingdom [2004] 1 FLR 1019 had converted what was only a requirement of good practice into a legal requirement, the court said (para 80): The true position is that the court does not authorise treatment that would otherwise be unlawful.
The court makes a declaration as to whether or not proposed treatment, or the withdrawal of treatment, will be lawful.
Good practice may require medical practitioners to seek such a declaration where the legality of proposed treatment is in doubt.
This is not, however, something that they are required to do as a matter of law.
Mr Burke made a complaint to the ECtHR under articles 2, 3, 8 and 14 of the ECHR (Burke v United Kingdom (Application No 19807/0) 11 July 2006).
It was rejected as manifestly ill founded.
The ECtHR expressed itself satisfied that the presumption of domestic law is strongly in favour of prolonging life where possible, which accords with the spirit of the Convention (p 8 of the decision).
Dealing specifically with the argument that there was insufficient protection