 the 2005 Act, it is worth noting a provision which is not to be found amongst them.
The Law Commission had recommended (see Law Commission Report No 231 on Mental Incapacity, published in 1995, particularly para 6.21) that the new statute should provide that the discontinuance of artificial sustenance to an unconscious patient with no activity in the cerebral cortex and no prospect of recovery should in every case require the prior approval of the court, unless an attorney or court appointed manager had express authority to make the decision, albeit that flexibility for the future was to be incorporated by providing that the Secretary of State could, by order, replace the need for court approval with a requirement for a certificate from an independent medical practitioner duly appointed for that purpose.
As the Explanatory Notes to the 2005 Act state, the Act has its basis in the Law Commission Report.
However, it does not seem to have been thought appropriate to include in it a requirement of court approval.
In a note provided by counsel for the appellant, it is suggested that the reason for this was that the government concluded that, rather than creating inflexible legal rules, the better course would be for the courts to continue to decide which cases should have their prior sanction, with the situations in which that was the case being set out in a code of practice (see Baroness Ashton of Uphollands statement during the debate on the Bill in the House of Lords, Hansard (HL Debates) 25 January 2005, vol 668, col 1243).
Mental Capacity Act 2005 Code of Practice
The Mental Capacity Act 2005 Code of Practice (the Code), issued under section 42 of the MCA 2005, came into effect in April 2007.
Chapter 5 of the Code has a section entitled How should someones best interests be worked out when making decisions about life sustaining treatment? It includes the following: 5.31 All reasonable steps which are in the persons best interests should be taken to prolong their life.
There will be a limited number of cases where treatment is futile, overly burdensome to the patient or where there is no prospect of recovery.
In circumstances such as these, it may be that an assessment of best interests leads to the conclusion that it would be in the best interests of the patient to withdraw or withhold life sustaining treatment, even if this may result in the persons death.
The decision maker must make a decision based on the best interests of the person who lacks capacity.
They must not be motivated by a desire to bring about the persons death for whatever reason, even if this is from a sense of compassion.
Healthcare and social care staff should also refer to relevant professional guidance when making decisions regarding life sustaining treatment. 5.33 Doctors must apply the best interests checklist and use their professional skills to decide whether life sustaining treatment is in the persons best interests.
If the doctors assessment is disputed, and there is no other way of resolving the dispute, ultimately the Court of Protection may be asked to decide what is in the persons best interests. 5.36 As mentioned in para 5.33 above, where there is any doubt about the patients best interests, an application should be made to the Court of Protection for a decision as to whether withholding or withdrawing life sustaining treatment is in the patients best interests.
Chapter 6 of the Code is entitled What protection does the Act offer for people providing care or treatment? Healthcare and treatment decisions are dealt with from paras 6.15 to 6.19.
Para 6.16 says that major healthcare and treatment decisions, such as major surgery or a decision that no attempt is to be made to resuscitate a patient, need special consideration.
Health care staff are directed to work out carefully