 what would be in the persons best interests, taking into account the views of people in various categories, and involving an IMCA where no one else is available to consult.
Para 6.17 commends multi disciplinary meetings as often the best way to decide on a persons best interests.
They bring together healthcare and social care staff to discuss the persons options and may involve those who are closest to the person concerned.
However, the paragraph stresses that final responsibility for deciding what is in the best interests of the person lies with the member of healthcare staff responsible for the persons treatment, who should record their decision, how they reached it, and the reasons for it, in the patients clinical notes.
As long as they have recorded objective reasons to show that the decision is in the persons best interests, and the other requirements of section 5 of the Act are met, all healthcare staff taking actions in connection with the particular treatment will be protected from liability.
Para 6.18 then goes on to single out certain treatment decisions in the following terms: 6.18 Some treatment decisions are so serious that the court has to make them unless the person has previously made a Lasting Power of Attorney appointing an attorney to make such healthcare decisions for them (see chapter 7) or they have made a valid advance decision to refuse the proposed treatment (see chapter 9).
The Court of Protection must be asked to make decisions relating to:20 the proposed withholding or withdrawal of artificial nutrition and hydration (ANH) from a patient in a permanent vegetative state (PVS) cases where it is proposed that a person who lacks capacity to consent should donate an organ or bone marrow to another person the proposed non therapeutic sterilisation of a person who lacks capacity to consent (for example, for contraceptive purposes) cases where there is a dispute about whether a particular treatment will be in a persons best interests.
See paragraphs 8.18 8.24 for more details on these types of cases.
Footnote 20 to para 6.18 refers to procedures resulting from those court judgments but the court judgments in question are not named.
Para 6.19 develops matters a little:
Chapter 8 of the Code deals with the role of the Court of Protection.
Commencing at para 8.18, there is a section headed Serious healthcare and treatment decisions.
Paras 8.18 and 8.19 read: 6.19 This last category may include cases that introduce ethical dilemmas concerning untested or innovative treatments where it is not known if the treatment will be effective, or certain cases involving a termination of pregnancy.
It may also include cases where there is conflict between professionals or between professionals and family members which cannot be resolved in any other way.
Where there is conflict, it is advisable for parties to get legal advice, though they may not necessarily be able to get legal aid to pay for this advice.
Chapter 8 gives more information about the need to refer cases to court for a decision. 8.18 Prior to the Act coming into force, the courts decided that some decisions relating to the provision of medical treatment were so serious that in each case, an application should be made to the court for a declaration that the proposed action was lawful before that action was taken.
Cases involving any of the following decisions should therefore be brought before a court: decisions about the proposed withholding or withdrawal of artificial nutrition and hydration (ANH) from patients in a permanent vegetative state (PVS) cases involving organ or bone marrow donation by a person who lacks capacity to consent cases involving the proposed non therapeutic sterilisation of a person who lacks capacity to consent to this (eg for contraceptive purposes) and all other cases where there is a doubt or dispute about whether a particular treatment will be in a persons best interests. 8.19 The