 it), the decision to limit or withdraw treatment of a person who is unable to express his or her wishes is taken by the doctor in charge of the patient, after the implementation of a collective procedure.
The circumstances in which such a decision can be taken are set out in article R.4127 37 para I of the Public Health Code.
I have included the provision in both French and English in order that the reference to unreasonable obstinacy in the English translation might be better understood; the ECtHR explains it in para 53 as continuing treatment to unreasonable lengths.
En toutes circonstances, le mdecin doit sefforcer de soulager les souffrances du malade par des moyens appropris son tat et lassister moralement.
Il doit sabstenir de toute obstination draisonnable dans les investigations ou la thrapeutique et peut renoncer entreprendre ou poursuivre des traitements qui apparaissent inutiles, disproportionns ou qui nont dautre objet ou effet que le maintien artificiel de la vie.
The doctor shall at all times endeavour to alleviate suffering by the means most appropriate to the patients condition, and provide moral support.
He or she shall refrain from any unreasonable obstinacy in carrying out examinations or treatment and may decide to withhold or discontinue treatment which appears futile or disproportionate or the only purpose or effect of which is to sustain life artificially.
Before taking the decision, the doctor is required to consult with the care team where there is one, and there has to be a reasoned opinion of at least one doctor acting as an independent consultant.
The decision has to take into account any wishes previously expressed by the patient, in particular in the form of advance directives, the views of any person of trust that the patient may have designated and of the family or, failing this, of another person close to the patient.
Reasons have to be given for any decision to limit or withdraw treatment, and the position has to be documented in the patients file.
Whilst the matter had, in VLs case, been litigated in the courts, demonstrating that recourse could be had to court if necessary, court approval was not required by the French provisions.
Although the applicants did not advance any argument that this rendered the system unsatisfactory for the purposes of article 2, they did complain about the decision making process on other grounds, considering that the decision should have been a genuinely collective one or, at the very least, provision should have been made for mediation in the event of disagreement.
This complaint led the court to consider what obligations there were concerning the decision making process.
Rejecting the complaint, it said (para 168) that the organisation of the decision making process, including the designation of the person who takes the final decision to withdraw treatment and the detailed arrangements for the taking of the decision, fall within the states margin of appreciation.
The French process (as amended, although not substantially, in 2016) once more withstood scrutiny by the ECtHR in January 2018 in Afiri and Biddarri v France (Application No 1828/18) 23 January 2018.
The court again re iterated the elements set out in para 143 of Lambert (supra) and repeated the observations it had there made (para 168) about the organisation of the decision making process.
Other guidance
Various medical bodies in the UK have produced codes relating to the withdrawal of life sustaining treatment.
In chronological order, they are: i) The BMAs Withholding and Withdrawing Life Prolonging Medical Treatment: Guidance for decision making (first published in 1999, 3rd ed 2007) ii) The GMCs Treatment and care towards the end of life