 in section 11(7), and thus subject to sections 24 to 26 of the Act (see immediately below).
Although it will normally extend to giving or refusing consent to the carrying out or continuation of a treatment by a person providing health care for the donor, section 11(8) provides that it will not authorise the giving or refusing of consent to the carrying out or continuation of life sustaining treatment, unless the instrument contains express provision to that effect.
Sections 24 to 26 deal specifically with advance decisions to refuse treatment.
They enable an adult with capacity to decide in advance that if he later lacks capacity to consent to the carrying out or continuation of a specified health care treatment, that treatment is not to be carried out or continued.
Such an advance decision applies to life sustaining treatment only if the decision is verified by a statement from the person concerned that it is to apply even if his life is at risk, and the decision complies with certain formalities set out in section 25(6), which essentially requires it to be written, signed and witnessed.
Section 37 makes provision for a situation in which an NHS body is proposing to provide serious medical treatment for a person who lacks capacity to consent to it and there is no one, other than those engaged in providing care or treatment for the person in a professional capacity or for remuneration, whom it would be appropriate to consult in determining what would be in the persons best interests.
Serious medical treatment means treatment which involves providing, withholding or withdrawing treatment of a kind prescribed by regulations made by the appropriate authority, which in practice will relate to situations in which a finely balanced decision has to be taken or what is proposed would be likely to involve serious consequences for the patient.
Before providing the treatment, the NHS body must instruct an independent mental capacity advocate (referred to as an IMCA) to represent the person, although treatment which is urgently needed can be provided even though it has not been possible to appoint an IMCA.
In providing treatment, the NHS body has to take into account information provided or submissions made by the IMCA.
The provisions of sections 15 to 17 of the Act give the court power to make decisions about personal welfare and to make declarations and orders in respect of a person who lacks capacity.
Section 15 deals with declarations, including declarations as to the lawfulness or otherwise of any act which has been or is to be done.
Section 16 enables the court, by making an order, to make personal welfare decisions for a person without capacity, and, by section 17, the courts power in this regard extends to giving or refusing consent to the carrying out or continuation of a treatment by a person providing health care for the patient.
Section 16(3) makes it clear that the courts powers under section 16 are subject to the provisions of the Act and, in particular, to section 1 and to section 4.
What governs the courts decision about any matter concerning the patients personal welfare is therefore the patients best interests.
Section 42 provides for the Lord Chancellor to prepare and issue codes of practice on various subjects.
Before preparing a code, the Lord Chancellor has duties to consult, and a code may not be issued unless it has been laid before both Houses of Parliament in accordance with section 43(2).
Section 42(4) imposes a duty on someone acting in a professional capacity in relation to a person who lacks capacity to have regard to any relevant code.
Section 42(5) provides that if it appears to a court conducting any criminal or civil proceedings that a provision of a code, or a failure to comply with a code, is relevant to a question arising in the proceedings, the provision or failure must be taken into account in deciding the question.
Before leaving this overview of the provisions of