 patients best interests.
Although para 6.18 suggests that the court has to make/must be asked to make the decision about withholding or withdrawing artificial nutrition and hydration from a patient in PVS, that statement seems to have been derived from the case law, which dealt only in terms of good practice, not of legal obligation.
And paras 8.18 and 8.19, to which para 6.18 invites reference, say that an application should be made to the court and that as a matter of practice such cases should be put to the Court of Protection for approval, referring to a case law requirement to seek a declaration, the source of which is given as the Bland case.
A Code in these rather ambiguous terms, plainly attempting to convey what the cases have so far decided, cannot extend the duty of the medical team beyond what the cases do in fact decide is incumbent upon them.
Whatever the weight given to the Code by section 42 of the MCA 2005, it does not create an obligation as a matter of law to apply to court in every case.
Practice Direction 9E which accompanied the Court of Protection Rules 2007 said that decisions about the proposed withholding or withdrawal of artificial nutrition and hydration from a person in a persistent vegetative state or a minimally conscious state should be brought to court.
It is understandable that the ad hoc Rules Committee decided that, in so far as the practice direction purported to direct which cases had to be brought to court, it went beyond its proper scope; a practice direction cannot establish a legal obligation when none exists already, see U v Liverpool City Council (Practice Note) [2005] 1 WLR 2657, para 48.
In any event, as no equivalent practice direction accompanies the Court of Protection Rules 2017, it is not necessary to delve into the matter further.
No requirement to apply to court can be found in the post MCA 2005 case law either.
The decision of Baker J in In re M (Adult Patient) (Minimally Conscious State: Withdrawal of Treatment) does not assist because it proceeded upon the basis that the Bland case had established that all decisions about the proposed withholding or withdrawal of CANH had as a matter of law to be brought to court and I would not interpret the Bland case in this way.
The view of King LJ, expressed obiter in the Court of Appeal in In re Briggs [2018], that treating doctors can take a decision without recourse to court where there is no dispute about it should, however, be accorded weight.
This is so even allowing for the possibility raised by Mr Gordon that the court may not have had full argument on the subject and may not have been referred to all the relevant passages in the Code, as King LJ spoke only of one of the less prescriptive provisions.
It is important to note the views of those who, like her, have long experience in the Family Division where life and death issues are regularly litigated.
Peter Jackson Js judgment in In re M (Incapacitated Person: Withdrawal of Treatment) (given after the Court of Appeals decision in the Briggs case) is also of assistance, particularly for the judges analysis of why, in his view, the decision as to what was in Ms best interests could have been taken without reference to the court.
Mr Gordon points out that the Official Solicitor was not formally involved in that case and that there was no oral argument on the topic.
However, as Peter Jackson J set out in para 30, he did invite and receive a substantial skeleton argument prepared by leading and junior counsel on behalf of the Official Solicitor which, he said, (among other things) trenchantly asserts that an application to court should be made in every case of proposed withdrawal of