 not seek, in their decision, to provide a set of universal principles, dictating the answers in all other cases, and there was acknowledgment that some of the issues arising may more properly be for Parliament to determine.
A sense of the delicacy with which the House was proceeding is conveyed by Lord Mustills observation that [e]very step forward requires the greatest caution (p 899F).
In these circumstances, it is not at all surprising that their Lordships held that, for the time being, the guidance of the court should be sought before treatment and care of a patient were discontinued.
Given the central importance that Mr Gordon attaches to what they said about this, the relevant passages will need to be cited in full in due course, but, before doing that, it is appropriate to underline the following three points of importance that are found in the speeches and have relevance not only to the decision in the Bland case, but also to subsequent decisions, including the present one: i) As has already been seen from In re F (Mental Patient: Sterilisation) (supra), it is unlawful to administer medical treatment to an adult who is conscious and of sound mind, without his consent; to do so is both a tort and the crime of battery.
Such an adult is at liberty to decline treatment even if that will result in his death, and the same applies where a person, in anticipation of entering into a condition such as PVS, has given clear instructions that in such an event he is not to be given medical care, including artificial feeding, designed to keep him alive. ii) Where a person, due to accident or some other cause, becomes unconscious and thus unable to give or withhold consent, it is lawful for doctors to give such treatment as, in their informed opinion, is in the best interests of the patient.
Where it is no longer in the best interests of the patient to provide treatment, it may, and ultimately should, be discontinued (see, for example, p 867 of Lord Goffs speech, with which Lord Keith of Kinkel and Lord Lowry agreed). iii) The argument that artificial feeding (in that case by nasogastric tube) was not medical treatment at all, but indistinguishable from normal feeding, was rejected.
Regard had to be had to the whole regime which was keeping the patient alive, and in any event a medical technique was involved in the feeding.
I come now to look in more depth at what their Lordships had to say in the Bland case when explaining their position in relation to declaratory relief.
It is useful to start with their recognition that the courts and the medical profession were working together in addressing the new situation that had arisen as a result of scientific advances.
The medical profession had already been working on the issue and there was available a Discussion Paper on Treatment of Patients in Persistent Vegetative State, issued in September 1992 by the Medical Ethics Committee of the British Medical Association.
On the basis of it, at p 870, Lord Goff paid tribute to the evident care with which the topic was being considered by the medical profession.
In a passage which remains relevant today, he commented as follows on the respective roles of doctors and judges in life and death cases (p 871): I also feel that those who are concerned that a matter of life and death, such as is involved in a decision to withhold life support in case of this kind, should be left to the doctors, would do well to study this paper.
The truth is that, in the course of their work, doctors frequently have to make decisions which may affect the continued survival of their patients, and are in reality far more experienced in matters of this kind than are the judges.
It is nevertheless the function of the judges to state the legal principles upon