 significance, in Gard v United Kingdom (2017) 65 EHRR SE9, the ECtHR described it as its landmark Grand Chamber case Lambert (para 79).
Lambert concerned a man, VL, who had sustained serious head injuries, rendering him tetraplegic and completely dependent.
He had irreversible brain damage and was receiving artificial nutrition and hydration.
Through the collective procedure established in France by the Public Health Code as amended by the Act of 22 April 2005 on patients rights and end of life issues (the Public Health Code), a decision was taken by Dr K to withdraw nutrition and hydration.
VLs wife, and ultimately also his parents, a half brother and a sister, were involved in the decision making process.
His parents, half brother and sister opposed the withdrawal of nutrition and hydration, and there was considerable litigation in France.
This culminated in the Conseil dtat.
Furnished with an expert medical report which concluded that VL was in a vegetative state, and after considering observations on the Public Health Code from a number of amici curiae, the Conseil held that Dr Ks decision was not unlawful.
The parents, half brother and sister made an application to the ECtHR, arguing that there was a violation of (inter alia) articles 2 and 8 of the ECHR.
By a majority, the court found that there was no violation of article 2, and that there was no need for a separate ruling on article 8.
In its judgment, it referred back to its previous decisions in Glass (2003) 37 EHRR CD66 and Burke v United Kingdom (Application No 19807/0) (supra), observing at para 143 that: in addressing the question of the administering or withdrawal of medical treatment [in those cases], it took into account the following factors: the existence in domestic law and practice of a regulatory framework compatible with the requirements of article 2; whether account had been taken of the applicants previously expressed wishes and those of the persons close to him, as well as the opinions of other medical personnel; and the possibility to approach the courts in the event of doubts as to the best decision to take in the patients interests.
These factors were relevant to its decision about VL (and were set out again subsequently in para 80 of Gard), as well as the criteria laid down in the Council of Europes Guide on the decision making process regarding medical treatment in end of life situations.
The Guide had been drawn up in the course of work on patients rights and with the intention of facilitating the implementation of the Oviedo Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine (see para 59 of Lambert), which has been ratified by 29 of the Council of Europe member states, but not the United Kingdom.
The ECtHR observed (para 165) that the comparative law materials available to it showed that, in those countries which authorise the withdrawal of treatment, and where the patient has not given any advance directive, there is a great variety of arrangements governing the taking of the final decision to withdraw treatment.
The most common situation was that the final decision was taken by the doctor treating the patient, but it could be taken jointly by the doctor and the family, by the family or legal representative, or (as it is put in para 75) even the courts.
The ECtHR determined that the French legal provisions, as interpreted by the Conseil dtat, constituted a legal framework which was sufficiently clear to regulate with precision the decisions taken by doctors in situations such as VLs, and which ensured protection of patients lives.
It is worth looking in a little detail at what was required by French law at the relevant time.
By the Public Health Code (including the Code of Medical Ethics which is part of