 whether it is in the patients best interests to give the treatment, rather than whether it is in his best interests to withhold it or withdraw it.
She continued: If the treatment is not in [the patients] best interests, the court will not be able to give its consent on his behalf and it will follow that it will be lawful to withhold or withdraw it.
Indeed, it will follow that it will not be lawful to give it.
It also follows that (provided of course that they have acted reasonably and without negligence) the clinical team will not be in breach of any duty towards the patient if they withhold or withdraw it.
The court did not have to consider the issue that now falls for determination.
However, it is worth noting that Baroness Hale spoke in approving terms, in para 47, of the sensible advice given by the General Medical Council in their guidance on Treatment and care towards the end of life: Good practice in decision making (see below) and said that nothing in her judgment was inconsistent with it.
In re Briggs (Incapacitated Person) [2018] Fam 63 concerned a man in a minimally conscious state.
His wife brought proceedings under section 21A of the MCA 2005 (as inserted by paragraph 9 of Schedule 2 to the Mental Health Act 2007) seeking a determination that it was not in her husbands best interests to continue to be given the CANH that he needed to survive.
By virtue of having applied under section 21A, the wife was entitled to non means tested legal aid.
It was contended, against her, that the issue of her husbands treatment could not be raised under section 21A (which deals with the courts powers in relation to the authorisation of deprivation of liberty) and that the application should have been brought under other provisions of the Act, which would have resulted in only means tested funding being available.
The question for the court was therefore whether section 21A was broad enough to cover the treatment application.
The Court of Appeal held that it did not provide a route for determining questions in relation to medical treatment where, as in that case, the deprivation of liberty itself was not the real or essential issue before the court.
An application for a welfare order under section 16 of the Act should have been made.
In the course of the judgment, King LJ (with whom both other members of the court agreed, Sir Brian Leveson P adding a few words of his own) made some observations about the issue that now concerns this court.
Although obiter, they are still valuable, not least for their insight into what happens in practice.
At the time, Practice Direction 9E remained in force, and King LJ observed, at para 24, that at first glance there seemed to be a tension between the practice direction, which appeared to say that all cases of withholding or withdrawing treatment in relation to a minimally conscious person should be brought before the court, and the Code which said that matters should be brought before the court where there was a doubt as to the persons best interests.
Because the Code was a statutory code to which the MCA 2005 made it mandatory to have regard, she said that the Code must take precedence and then continued: 26.
In reality virtually all of these traumatic decisions are made by agreement between the families and the treating teams of the person involved.
To suggest that every case should go before a judge (even where all concerned are in accord as to what was in the best interests of the patient) would not only be an unnecessary pressure on the overstretched resources of the NHS trusts and add to the burden on the courts but, most importantly, would greatly add to the strain on the families having to face these unimaginably distressing decisions.
In my judgment, the practice