 case law requirement to seek a declaration in cases involving the withholding or withdrawing of artificial nutrition and hydration to people in a permanent vegetative state is unaffected by the Act30 and as a matter of practice, these cases should be put to the Court of Protection for approval.
Footnote 30 refers to the Bland case.
Just to complete the picture, para 15.36 says that [t]here are some decisions that are so serious that the court should always make them and refers the reader back to chapter 8 for more information about that type of case.
It will be noted that the Code of Practice does not seem to be entirely consistent in its approach to involving the court in serious treatment decisions, chapter 6 asserting that the Court of Protection must be asked to make certain decisions, and chapter 8 that certain decisions should be brought before a court.
It will be necessary to return to this later.
Court of Protection Rules and Practice Directions
Court of Protection Rules are made by the President of the Family Division (who is the President of the Court of Protection), in exercise of powers conferred by the MCA 2005.
Assistance is provided by an ad hoc Rules Committee which is chaired by the Vice President of the Court of Protection, and includes judges of the Court of Protection, experienced solicitors and barristers, representatives of local authorities, court staff and the Official Solicitor.
The first set of rules were the Court of Protection Rules 2007 (SI 2007/1744).
They were replaced by the Court of Protection Rules 2017 (SI 2017/1035) which came into force on 1 December 2017.
Both sets of Rules have been supplemented by Practice Directions.
The Court of Protection Rules 2007 were accompanied by Practice Direction 9E.
This was entitled Applications relating to serious medical treatment and set out the procedure to be followed where the application concerned serious medical treatment.
Para 5 of the Practice Direction said that cases involving decisions about the proposed withholding or withdrawal of artificial nutrition and hydration from a person in a permanent vegetative state or a minimally conscious state should be regarded as serious medical treatment for the purposes of the Rules and this Practice Direction, and should be brought to the court.
When the 2017 Rules replaced the 2007 Rules, this provision was revoked and no equivalent provision was introduced.
As to the reasoning for this change, some insight is provided by the notes of a meeting in July 2017 of the ad hoc Court of Protection Rules Committee, which are headed Further Note: Serious Medical Treatment Practice Directions 9E and12A (28 July 2017).
The notes state (para 7) that no final recommendation was formulated by the committee.
However, it is recorded (para 4) that it had been concluded that Practice Direction 9E should not have included provisions as to what cases should be brought to court, since a practice direction cannot properly direct when an application should be made, and that accordingly any new practice direction should not include any equivalent provision.
The final paragraph records that Charles J, as the chairman of the committee, would recommend and so instruct work to be done to remove and not replace Practice Direction 9E.
It appears that the committee had considered, but not generally favoured, a practice direction which took a different approach, for example recording what had been said in the decided cases.
It was, however, common ground that the British Medical Association, the Law Society, the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Health (the reference, in the conclusions and recommendations section of the note, to the Ministry of Defence must be a mistake) would create a working group to address the underlying issues and the giving of guidance which would take account of developing authority and so would consider how the guidance produced could be readily updated