.
The pressure of business in the courts charged with handling such cases is significant and delays are almost inevitable.
As King LJ observed in In re Briggs, quite apart from the pressure that court cases place on the overstretched resources of NHS trusts, they add greatly to the strain on families facing acutely distressing decisions.
In a case where all the proper procedures have been observed and there is no doubt about what is in the best interests of the patient, there is much to be said for enabling the family and the patient to spend their last days together without the burden and distraction, and possibly expense, of court proceedings.
In addition, I do not disagree with Peter Jackson Js observation that there is a risk that the need to go to court might deflect clinicians and families from making true best interests decisions and might lead in some cases to inappropriate treatment continuing by default.
Equally, it is not inconceivable that it might, as the BMA suggest, generate a reluctance, in some cases, to start CANH because of the procedures attending its withdrawal.
The Official Solicitor submits that the challenges of diagnosis have increased since the Bland case, rather than the way becoming clearer as might have been expected.
The difficulties in diagnosis are underlined in the submissions of the intervenors, Care Not Killing, and the report of Professor Sturman which accompanies them, but are also apparent from other material available to us.
Medical science, continually developing, cannot always provide answers, and greater knowledge can produce yet more questions.
Developments in this area of medicine include the ability to differentiate between vegetative state and minimally conscious state, and improvement in the outcomes for some individual patients.
These changes inevitably create new challenges of diagnosis and management, new uncertainties, for the medical profession.
The situation is not, however, on a par with that which faced the House of Lords in the Bland case.
The survival of patients such as Anthony Bland, then so unprecedented, is now a well established feature of medical practice.
The documentation supplied to us shows that the difficulty that there is in assessing the patient and in evaluating his or her best interests is well recognised.
The process is the subject of proper professional guidance, covering vitally important matters such as the involvement in the decision making process of a doctor with specialist knowledge of prolonged disorders of consciousness, and the obtaining of a second opinion from a senior independent clinician with no prior involvement in the patients care.
The second opinion, as contemplated in the guidance (see paras 79 and 80 above, for example), is, in my view, a crucial part of the scrutiny that is essential for decisions of this sort, and the guidance sets parameters which should ensure that it is an effective check, in that the clinician who provides the second opinion must (so far as reasonably practical in the circumstances of the case) be external to the organisation caring for the patient, and is expected to carry out his or her own examination of the patient, consider and evaluate the medical records, review information about the patients best interests, and make his or her own judgement as to whether the decision to withdraw (or not to start) CANH is in the best interests of the patient.
Thus the interests of patients and their families are safeguarded, as far as possible, against errors in diagnosis and evaluation, premature decisions, and local variations in practice.
If, at the end of the medical process, it is apparent that the way forward is finely balanced, or there is a difference of medical opinion, or a lack of agreement to a proposed course of action from those with an interest in the patients welfare, a court application can and should be made.
As the decisions of the ECtHR underline, this possibility of approaching a court in the event of doubts as to the best interests of the patient is an essential part of the