.
The case law: domestic decisions after MCA 2005
Aintree University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust v James [2013] UKSC 67; [2014] AC 591 was the first case to come before the Supreme Court under the MCA 2005.
It concerned a patient with multiple medical problems, who had a very limited level of awareness and lacked capacity to make decisions concerning his medical treatment.
The hospital Trust applied for a declaration, under section 15 of the MCA 2005, that it would be lawful, as being in the patients best interests, for three particular life preserving treatments to be withheld if his condition got worse.
The family did not agree with the withdrawal of treatment and, at first instance, Peter Jackson J refused to grant the declaration.
By the time of the Trusts appeal to the Court of Appeal, the patient had suffered a dramatic deterioration; he was completely dependent on mechanical ventilation and was comatose or semi comatose.
The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal and granted the declaration.
The patient subsequently died, following a cardiac arrest, but the Supreme Court nonetheless heard his widows appeal, which gave rise to questions concerning the proper approach to the assessment of a patients best interests in the post MCA 2005 era.
The appeal was dismissed, although Peter Jackson Js approach to determining the patients best interests was preferred to that of the Court of Appeal.
Baroness Hale gave a judgment with which the other justices all agreed.
She restated, now with reference to the provisions of the MCA 2005, the position as to invasive medical treatment of a patient.
Although going over ground covered in the pre MCA 2005 cases, it is worth setting out the relevant passages in full, since they establish the up to date legal context for the questions that arise in the present appeal.
She said: 19.
Generally it is the patients consent which makes invasive medical treatment lawful.
It is not lawful to treat a patient who has capacity and refuses that treatment.
Nor is it lawful to treat a patient who lacks capacity if he has made a valid and applicable advance decision to refuse it: see the 2005 Act, sections 24 to 26.
Nor is it lawful to treat such a patient if he has granted a lasting power of attorney (under section 10) or the court has appointed a deputy (under section 16) with the power to give or withhold consent to that treatment and that consent is withheld; but an attorney only has power to give or withhold consent to the carrying out or continuation of life sustaining treatment if the instrument expressly so provides (section 11(8)) and a deputy cannot refuse consent to such treatment: section 20(5). 20.
Those cases aside, it was recognised by the House of Lords in In re F (Mental Patient: Sterilisation) [1990] 2 AC 1 that where a patient is unable to consent to treatment it is lawful to give her treatment which is necessary in her best interests.
Section 5 of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 now provides a general defence for acts done in connection with the care or treatment of a person, provided that the actor has first taken reasonable steps to establish whether the person concerned lacks capacity in relation to the matter in question and reasonably believes both that the person lacks capacity and that it will be in his best interests for the act to be done.
However, section 5 does not expressly refer both to acts and to omissions, the giving or withholding of treatment.
The reason for this, in my view, is that the fundamental question is whether it is lawful to give the treatment, not whether it is lawful to withhold it.
Baroness Hale underlined further, in para 22, that the focus is on