 similar to that taken in In re F.
There was no suggestion that the common law was now being developed in the sort of way that Lord Griffiths had eschewed in In re F.
It was made quite clear that it was as a matter of practice that guidance should be sought from the court by way of declaratory relief, the practice of applying being desirable.
It was contemplated that the President of the Family Division would keep matters under review and it was hoped that he would, in time, be able to limit applications for declarations to cases where there was a special need; this would have been difficult had the House of Lords created a legal requirement of a declaration in every case.
The position was underlined in R (Burke) v General Medical Council (supra) where the Court of Appeal expressly rejected the argument that there was a legal duty to seek a declaration from the court before withdrawing artificial nutrition and hydration from a patient in PVS, affirming that the House of Lords in Blands case had recommended as a matter of good practice that reference be made to the court.
Mr Gordon submits that the Court of Appeal was not there addressing the same issue as this court must now address, namely the protection of the vulnerable class of patients with PDOC, and that it had only been addressed on the situation of PVS patients in passing.
I do not consider that Burkes case can be removed from the picture in this way.
It seems to me to be an accurate statement of the legal position and of relevance to the issue before us.
Accordingly, when the Mental Capacity Act 2005 came into force in 2007, there was no universal requirement, at common law, to apply for a declaration prior to withdrawing CANH.
Mr Sachdeva, for the respondents, argues that it would be inconsistent with the statutory regime established by Parliament in the MCA 2005 to have such a requirement.
The Act makes provision for decisions to be taken on behalf of those who lack capacity, based upon what is in their best interests, without involving a court.
By section 5, subject of course to the impact of any relevant lasting power of attorney or advance decision to refuse treatment, a clinician who treats a patient in accordance with what he reasonably believes to be the patients best interests does not incur any liability, in relation to the treatment, that he would not have incurred if the patient had had capacity to consent and had consented to it.
Provision is made for the court to make decisions about personal welfare where necessary, but the Act does not single out any sub class of decisions which must always be placed before the court, and there is no requirement for the Official Solicitor to be involved in best interest decisions relating to serious medical treatment.
There is an attraction to Mr Sachdevas argument that the MCA 2005 is a complete statutory code but, had there been a common law requirement of court involvement by the time it was passed, I think I might nonetheless have been prepared to accept that it could have survived the silence of the Act on the subject.
However, as there was no pre existing common law requirement, the point does not arise for decision.
The absence of any requirement in the statute of the type for which the Official Solicitor contends is nevertheless of interest, given the recommendations of the Law Commission Report No 231 which brought it to attention as one of the possible options, and given that the Act is based upon that report.
In contrast to the statute itself, the Mental Capacity Act 2005 Code of Practice does speak of applications to court in cases such as the present, but is contradictory in what it says about them.
Paras 5.33 and 5.36 speak in terms of an application being made if there is any doubt or dispute about the doctors assessment of the