The question that arises in this appeal is whether a court order must always be obtained before clinically assisted nutrition and hydration, which is keeping alive a person with a prolonged disorder of consciousness, can be withdrawn, or whether, in some circumstances, this can occur without court involvement.
Terminology
The term prolonged disorder of consciousness encompasses both a permanent vegetative state (sometimes referred to as a persistent vegetative state, and often shortened to PVS) and a minimally conscious state (or MCS).
Prolonged disorder of consciousness is commonly shortened to PDOC and that practice is followed in this judgment.
Clinically assisted nutrition and hydration is now referred to as CANH, although it has been variously described in the past.
The facts
Mr Y was an active man in his fifties when, in June 2017, he suffered a cardiac arrest which resulted in severe cerebral hypoxia and extensive brain damage.
He never regained consciousness following the cardiac arrest.
He required CANH, provided by means of a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy, to keep him alive.
The month after his cardiac arrest, Mr Y was admitted to the regional hyper acute rehabilitation unit under the control of the first respondent NHS Trust so that his level of awareness could be assessed.
In late September, his treating physician concluded that he was suffering from PDOC and that even if he were to regain consciousness, he would have profound cognitive and physical disability, remaining dependent on others to care for him for the rest of his life.
A second opinion was obtained in October, from a consultant and professor in Neurological Rehabilitation, who considered that Mr Y was in a vegetative state and that there was no prospect of improvement.
Mrs Y and their children believed that he would not wish to be kept alive given the doctors views about his prognosis.
The clinical team and the family agreed that it would be in Mr Ys best interests for CANH to be withdrawn, which would result in his death within two to three weeks.
On 1 November 2017, the NHS Trust issued an application in the Queens Bench Division of the High Court for a declaration (1) that it was not mandatory to seek the courts approval for the withdrawal of CANH from a patient with PDOC when the clinical team and the patients family were agreed that it was not in the patients best interests that he continue to receive that treatment, and (2) that no civil or criminal liability would result if CANH were to be withdrawn.
At a directions hearing on 3 November, Fraser J invited the Official Solicitor to act as Mr Ys litigation friend in the proceedings but, rather than adjourning the case for a hearing in the Court of Protection as the Official Solicitor sought, he ordered that the final hearing be expedited and listed before OFarrell J in the Queens Bench Division on 10 November.
On 10 November, OFarrell J [2017] EWHC 2866 (QB) refused the Official Solicitors renewed application for the case to be transferred to the Court of Protection.
She considered that it would have been appropriate to transfer the case if the court were being asked to determine whether the withdrawal of treatment was in Mr Ys best interests, but that, in fact, the issue she had to determine was a purely legal issue.
She concluded that it was not established that there was any common law principle that all cases concerning the withdrawal of CANH from a person who lacks capacity had to be sanctioned by the court.
In her view, at para 52, where the clinicians have followed the Mental Capacity Act and good medical practice, there is no dispute with the family of the person who lacks capacity or others interested in his welfare, and no other doubts or concerns have been identified, there is no requirement to bring the matter before