 dignity and the sanctity of human life are, quite rightly, central to the Official Solicitors case.
His submission is that only by requiring judicial scrutiny in every case concerning the withdrawal of CANH from a patient suffering from PDOC can human life and dignity be properly safeguarded.
An important part of the protection is, he submits, the oversight of an independent and neutral person such as the Official Solicitor, who can investigate, expose potential disputes, and give the patient a voice in the decision making, and it is court proceedings that enable the Official Solicitor to be involved.
Medical guidance on its own is, in his submission, insufficient protection, and so, until other protective mechanisms are devised, the common law and/or the ECHR dictate that an application to court must be made.
I do not understand the Official Solicitor to go so far as to submit that In re F (Mental Patient: Sterilisation) and Blands case specifically impose a common law requirement for a court application in every case.
His argument is less direct.
In his written case, Mr Gordon says that it is abundantly clear from those cases that the House of Lords implicitly accepted the link between the need for common law protection of patients rights and necessary mechanisms (not yet sufficiently advanced) to give full protection of those rights.
That, in his submission, is what led them to say that for the time being a declaration should be sought, it being the only suitably protective mechanism so far available.
Since, in the Official Solicitors view, the necessary mechanisms have still not been developed, there remains no satisfactory alternative protection for patients.
In those circumstances, it is artificial, he submits, to distinguish between a statement of good practice, and what is required by common law, as they are in fact one and the same, necessitating court involvement in every case.
The passing of the MCA 2005 has not changed matters, it is submitted, and the common law is not undermined by the absence of an express statutory provision in it requiring court involvement.
Indeed it is asserted that, on the contrary, [i]t was clear that Parliament intended that judicial scrutiny of any decision to withdraw CANH should continue for the foreseeable future.
In terms of recent support for his position, Mr Gordon seeks to rely upon something that Baroness Hale said in In re N v (An Adult) (Court of Protection: Jurisdiction) [2017] AC 549, para 38.
Whereas I intend to address the bulk of the Official Solicitors submissions later, this one can be dealt with straight away.
I did not include In re N v (An Adult) (Court of Protection: Jurisdiction) in my rsum of the authorities as it is not on the point which requires determination here.
The issue related to the powers of the Court of Protection where a public body, the local commissioning group, refused to provide or fund a care package for an incapacitated adult which his parents thought would be in his best interests.
At para 38, introducing her discussion of that very different issue, Baroness Hale said: Section 5 of the 2005 Act gives a general authority, to act in relation to the care or treatment of P, to those caring for him who reasonably believe both that P lacks capacity in relation to the matter and that it will be in Ps best interests for the act to be done.
This will usually suffice, unless the decision is so serious that the court itself has said it must be taken to court (My italics) It seems to me over ambitious to seek to rely upon the italicised sentence, taken out of context, as support for the existence of the common law requirement for which Mr Gordon contends.
Turning to the ECHR, the Official Solicitor seeks to invoke article 2 (