No. 132 of 1951.
Peti tion under article 32 of the Constitution for a writ in the nature of mandamus.
The material facts are set out in the judgment.
Nuruddin Abroad for the petitioner.
K.N. Aggarwal for the respondents.
February 27.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAs J.
This is an application under article 32 of the Constitution made by Mohammad Yasin for the protection of his fundamental right of carrying on his business which, according to him, is being infringed by the respondent.
The case sought to be made out in the petition may be shortly stated as follows: The petitioner is a wholesale dealer in fresh vegetables and fruits at Jalalabad in the district of Muzaffarnagar in the State of Uttar Pradesh and claims to have been carrying on such business for the last 7 years or so at his shop situated in the town of Jalalabad.
The vegetable and fruit growers used to bring their goods to the town and get them auctioned through any of the vegetable dealers of their choice who used to charge one anna in the rupee as and by way of commission.
The respondent Committee which is a Town Area Committee has framed certain bye laws under which all right and power to levy or collect commission on sale or purchase of vegetables and fruits within the limits of the town vest in the respondent Committee or any other agency appointed by the Committee and no one except the respondent Committee is authorised to deal in wholesale vegetables and fruits and collect the commission thereof in any place and in any event.
The respondent Committee has by auction given the contract for sale of 575 vegetables and fruits and for collecting the commission for the current year to the respondent Bishamber who, it is alleged, has never dealt in vegetables and fruits The respondent Committee has not set up any market nor has it framed any bye laws for issue of licences to the vegetable and fruit merchants.
The bye laws also provide for prosecu tion for the breach of any of the provisions of these bye laws.
Although, in terms, there is no absolute prohibition against carrying on business as wholesale dealer in vegeta bles and fruits, the result of the bye laws requiring the wholesale dealers to pay the prescribed fee of one anna in the rupee to the contractor who holds the monopoly is, in effect, to bring about a total prohibition of the business of the wholesale dealers in vegetables and fruits.
The petitioner contends that by granting a monopoly of the right to do wholesale business in vegetables and fruits to the respondent Bishamber the respondent Committee has in effect totally prevented the petitioner from carrying on his busi ness and has thereby infringed his fundamental right under article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.
In the alterna tive, the petitioner contends that the respondent Committee has no legal authority to impose a tax of the kind it has sought to do, that the imposition of a tax calculated at one anna in the rupee is in the nature of a sale tax and cannot be regarded as a licence fee and such unauthorised impost constitutes an illegal restraint on his fundamental right under article 19 (1) (g).
The notice of motion has been served on the respondent Committee as well as on respondent Bishamber.
The respond ents have entered appearance and filed an affidavit in opposition to the present application affirmed by their agent on record Paragraph 4 of that affidavit is as follows : "4.
Paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the petition are wrong and misleading and do not convey the correct idea.
If the bye laws are read from beginning to end, the correct posi tion is that the Town Area Committee has lawfully imposed certain taxes on the purchase 576 and sale of fruits and vegetables within the ambit of the Town Area