; and instead of collecting the aforesaid taxes departmentally the Committee finds it more convenient and less expensive to auction the 'right to collect the taxes ' and give the contract to the highest bidder or whomsoever it thinks fit and proper.
There is absolutely no restriction on anybody who wants to purchase or anybody who wants to sell; only he must pay the prescribed tax to the Town Area Commit tee through the Contractor.
The market is open, and writ large throughout the territory of the Town Area Committee and anybody can purchase from anybody and anybody can sell to anybody, without any control or intervention by the Contractor, whose position is simply that of a taxcollector on behalf of the Town Area Committee.
Instead of getting the pay, he gets the profits, if any, and runs the risk of incurring losses if his gross realisations are less than what he paid.
This is clearly the position, and it is submitted, there is nothing wrong with it legally and no interference of the petitioner 's rights.
" The petitioner has to his petition annexed copies of a set of bye laws dated June 24, 1942, and a copy of a resolu tion of the respondent Committee dated March 16, 1950, recommending the addition of several bye laws to the previ ous bye laws.
At the hearing of the petition before us it was agreed by and between counsel on both sides that the petition has to be disposed of on the basis of the bye laws of 1942 only and learned counsel for the respondent Commit tee has produced the original bye laws of 1942 before us.
Bye law 1 only provides that no person shall sell or pur chase any vegetable or fruit within the prescribed limits of the Town Area Committee, Jalalabad by wholesale or auction,without paying the fee fixed under these bye laws to the licensee appointed by the Town Magistrate.
Bye law 4 (b) expressly provides that any person can sell in wholesale at any place in the Town Area provided he pays the pre scribed fees to the licensee.
It is, therefore, clear that these byelaws do not in terms, prohibit anybody from dealing in vegetables and fruits as alleged by the petitioner 577 and in this respect they materially differ from the bye laws which this Court had to consider in the Kairana case(1) which consequently does not govern this case.
Learned counsel, however, contends and we think with considerable force and cogency that although, in form, there is no prohibition against carrying on any wholesale business by anybody, in effect and in substance the bye laws have brought about a total stoppage of the wholesale deal ers ' business in a commercial sense.
The wholesale dealers, who will have to pay the prescribed fee to the contractor appointed by auction, will necessarily have to charge the growers of vegetables and fruits something over and above the prescribed lee so as to keep a margin of profit for themselves but in such circumstances no grower of vegetables and fruits will have his produce sold to or auctioned by the wholesale dealers at a higher rate of commission but all of them will flock to the contractor who will only charge them the prescribed commission.
On the other hand, if the wholesale dealers charge the growers of vegetables and fruits only the commission prescribed by the bye laws they will have to make over the whole of it to the contractor without keeping any profit themselves.
In other words, the wholesale dealers will be converted into mere tax col lectors for the contractor or the respondent Committee without any remuneration from either of them In effect, therefore, the bye laws, it is said, have brought about a total prohibition of the business of the wholesale dealers in a commercial sense and from a practical point of view.
We are not of opinion that this contention is unsound or untenable.
Learned counsel for