 the petitioner, however, does not leave the matter there.
He goes further and urges that the respondent Committee has no legal authority to impose this fee of one anna in the rupee on the value of goods sold or auctioned and that such imposition is in the nature of a sale tax rather than a licence fee.
(1) ; 578 Learned counsel for the respondent in reply takes a preliminary objection to this line of argument.
He points out that as the levying of a tax without authority of law is specifically prohibited under article 265 of the Constitu tion, article 81(1) must be construed as referring to depri vation of property otherwise than by levying of a tax and that levying of a tax in contravention of article 265 does not amount to a breach of a fundamental right.
He contends, on the authority of the decision of this Court in Ramjilal vs Income tax Officer, Mohindargarh(1), that while an ille gal imposition of tax may be challenged in a properly con stituted suit, it cannot be questioned by an application under article 32.
This argument overlooks the difference between a tax like the income tax and a licence fee for carrying on a business.
A licence fee on a business not only takes away the property of the licensee but also operates as a restriction on his right to carry on his business, for without payment of such fee the business cannot be carried on at all.
This aspect of the matter was not raised or considered in the case relied on by the learned counsel, and that case, therefore, has no application to the facts of this case.
Under article 19(1) (g) the citizen has the right to carry on any occupation, trade or business which right under that clause is apparently to be unfettered.
The only restriction to this unfettered right is the authority of the State to make a law relating to the carrying on of such occupation, trade or business as mentioned in clause (6) of that article as amended by the Constitution (First Amend ment) Act, 1951.
If therefore, the licence fee cannot be justified on the basis of any valid law no question of its reasonableness can arise, for an illegal impost must at all times be an unreasonable restriction and will necessarily infringe the right of the citizen to carry on his occupa tion, trade or business under article 19 (1) (g) and such infringement can properly be made the subject matter of a challenge under article 32 of the Constitution.
(1) [1951] S.C.R.127.
579 Learned counsel for the respondents then refers us to the U.P. Town Areas Act (No. 11 of 1914) which governs the respondent Committee.
Section 14 of this Act requires the Committee to annually determine and report to the District Magistrate the amount required to be raised in any town area for the purposes of this Act and provides that the amount so determined shall be raised by the imposition of a tax to be assessed on the occupiers of houses or lands within the limits of the town area according either to their general circumstances or to the annual rental value of the houses or lands so occupied by them as the Committee may determine.
There were, at the time when the bye laws of the respond ent Committee were framed, five provisos to this section none of which authorised the imposition of any tax on any business and, therefore, they have no bearing on the ques tion now under consideration.
Learned counsel for the respondents, however, draws our attention to section 38 of the Act which authorises the Provincial Government by noti fication in the Official Gazette to extend to all or any or any part of any town area any enactment for the time being in force in