 any municipality in the United Provinces and to declare its extension to be subject to such restrictions and modifications, if any, as it thinks fit.
Then he proceeds to draw our attention to Notification No. 397/XI 871 E, dated the 6th February, 1929, whereby, in supersession of all previous notifications, the Provincial Government, in exer cise of the powers conferred by section 38(1) of the United Provinces Town Areas Act, 1914, extended the provisions of sections 293(1) and 298(2) (J) (d) of the United Provinces Municipalities Act (11 of 1916) to all the town area in the United Provinces in the modified form set forth therein.
The original bye laws produced by learned counsel purport, however, to have been framed by the respondent Committee under sections 298 (2)(F)(a)and 294 of the United Provinces Municipalities Act (11 of 1916).
We have not been referred to any notification whereby section '294 580 of the United Provinces Municipalities Act was extended to the respondent Committee.
It appears, however, that the bye laws of the respondent Committee were revised in Septem ber 1942 and were then said to have been made under section 298 (2) (J) (d).
It will have, therefore, to be seen wheth er these bye laws come within The purview of section 298 (2) (J) (d) as modified in their application to the respondent Committee.
It will be noticed that under section 298 (2) (J) (d) as modified as aforesaid the respondent Committee is authorised only to make bye laws fixing any charges or fees or any scale of charges or fees to be paid under section 9.93(1) and prescribing the times at which such charges or fees shall be payable and designating the persons authorised to receive payment thereof.
Section 293(1), as modified, authorises the respondent Committee to charge fees to be fixed by bye laws or by public auction or by agreement for the use or occupation (otherwise than under a lease) of any immovable property vested in, or entrusted to the management of the Town Area Committee, including any public street or place of which it allows the use or occupation whether by allowing a projection thereon or otherwise.
Bye law 1 of the respondent Committee to which a reference has already been made forbids a person from using any land within the limits of the town area for the sale or purchase of fruits and vegetables without paying the prescribed fee.
Bye law 4 (b), however, allows any person to sell in wholesale at any place in the town area, provided he pays the prescribed fees to the licensee.
These bye laws do not purport to fix a fee for the use or occupation of any immovable property vested in or entrusted to the management of the Town Area Committee including any public street or place of which it allows the use or occupation whether by allowing a projection thereon or otherwise.
Sections 293(1) and 298(2) (J) (d) of the United Province Municipalities Act, 1916, as amended at the time they were extended to the town areas in the United Provinces do not empower the Town Area Committee to make any bye law authorising it to 581 charge any fees otherwise than for the use or occupation of any property vested in or entrusted to the management of the Town Area Committee including any public street.
Therefore, the bye laws prima facie go much beyond the powers con ferred on the respondent Committee by the sections men tioned above and the petitioner complains against the en forcement of these bye laws against him as he