Appeal No. 159 of 1951.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated 13th of April, 1951, of the High Court of Judicature at Madras (Rajamannar C.J. and Somasundaram J.) in C.M.P. No. 122/15 of 1950.
M.C. Setalvad (C. R. Pattabhi Raman, with him) for the appellant.
C.K. Daphtary (M. Natesan, with him) for the respondent No.1 V.K.T. Chari, Advocate General of Madras (R. Ganapathi lyer, with him) for respondent No. 4. 1952.
March 17.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
This appeal arises as the result of special leave to appeal granted by this Court on the 1st of May, 1951, against an order of the Madras High Court dated 13th April, 1951, quashing certain proceedings of the Regional Transport Authority, Tanjore, and the Cen tral Traffic Board, Madras, dated 19th January, 1950, and 3rd March, 585 1950, respectively, and an order of the first respondent (the State of Madras) dated 7th November, 1950, and direct ing the issue to Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd., (Petitioners before the High Court) of permits for the five buses in respect of which a joint application had been made original ly by them and one T.D. Balasubramania Pillai.
The present appellant, G. Veerappa Pillai, was the fourth respondent in the High Court.
The present first respondents (Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd.) were the peti tioners before the High Court Present respondents Nos. 2, 3 and 4 were respectively respondents Nos. 1, 2 and 3 before the High Court.
The dispute is between the appellant and Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd., who were competing bus proprietors in the Tanjore District; and it is over the issues of five perma nent permits for buses Nos.
M.D.O. 81, M.D.O. 230, M.D.O. 6, M.D.O. 7 and M. D.O. 759 on the route between Kumbakonam and Karaikal.
It has been a long drawn game with many moves, counter moves, advances and checkmates, both sides display ing unusual assiduity and skill in their manoeuvres for position.
But it is unnecessary to set out in great detail all the steps taken, as they have been narrated in the order of High Court and many of them are of insignificant rele vance for disposal of this appeal.
I shall state here only what is material.
The 'C ' permits for the five buses stood originally in the name of Balasubramania Pillai.
The buses were agreed to be purchased from him by Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd., and there was a joint application by the transferor and trans feree on 10th March, 1944, for transfer of the ownership and of the 'C ' permits in the name of the purchasers.
Two days later, Veerappa Pillai, proprietor of the Sri Sathi Viias Bus Service, who is the appellant before us, applied for temporary permits to ply two of his own vehicles over the same route, stating that the vehicles of the two agencies which held the permits were mostly out of action.
It