1946, to 31st October, 1946, subject to the condition that the issue of the permits did not affect the rights of either party in the matter under dispute.
Thereupon, the Government was moved by Veerappa Pillai and also by Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd., but the Government declined to interfere and the result was an order on 30th June, 1947, by the Regional Transport Authority to the following effect: " Since the subject matter is on appeal before the High Court, the matter will lie over pending the decision of the High Court.
The temporary permits are continued as is being done." A fresh petition by Veerappa Pillai to the Central Road Traffic Board, Madras, was unsuccessful, but a further appeal to the Government of Madras ended in his favour in an order dated 29th March, 1949.
The order is in these terms : "Shri Sathi Viias Bus Service, Porayar, Tanjore dis trict, have been permitted by the Regional Transport Author ity, Tanjore, to run their buses M.D.O. 6, 7, 81, 230 and 750 on the Kumbakonam Karaikal route on temporary permits from 1944 pending 588 the High Court 's decision on the question of permanent ownership of the buses.
Government consider it undesirable to keep these buses running on temporary permits for a long and indefinite period.
Further Sri Sathi Vilas Bus Service have secured the decision of the Sub Court, Kumbako nam, in their favour about the permanent ownership of the buses.
In the circumstances the Regional Transport Authori ty, Tanjore, is directed to grant permanent permits for the buses of Sri Sathi Vilas Bus Service, Porayar, referred to above in lieu of the existing temporary permits.
" On the basis of this Government order, permanent permits were issued in favour of Veerappa Pillai on 18th April, 1949.
Getting to know of this last order, Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd.,approached the Government Madras with a petition praying for clarification of the order by making it expressly subject to the decision of the High Court regarding the title to the said five buses and that in the event of the High Court deciding the appeal in favour of Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd. "the above said five permanent permits will be taken away from Veerappa Pillai and given to them." The Minister of Transport, who dealt with the matter, stated on the petition "that was my inten tion also.
" The High Court reversed the decree of the Sub Court on 2nd September, 1949, and came to the conclusion that the title of Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd., to the five buses prevailed over that of Veerappa Pillai.
On 19th September, 1949, they applied to the Government for cancellation of the five permits issued to Veerappa Pillai and for grant of the same to them.
The Government declined to interfere as the Regional Transport Authority was the competent authority, vide order dated 16th November, 1949.
In their application to the Regional 'Fransport Authority dated 28th November, 1949, Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd., asked for withdrawal of the permits.
In the meantime, that is on 14th October, 1949, Veerappa Pillai applied for renewal of his permanent permits held for his own 589 buses Nos.
M.D.O. 1357, 20, 1366, 1110, 1077, M.D.O. 1368 and M.S.C.7632, which had been substituted