 and upheld the claim of the applicant that the appli cant should not enjoy the fruits of his success.
" He further points out that the procedure laid down by the Motor Vehi cles Act and the rules for grant of fresh permits was not followed and that long before the application for renewal was allowed, the Regional Transport Authority had been informed of the decision of the High Court.
The order of the Central Road Traffic Board was in his opinion most unsatis factory, as it was based on a quibbling distinction between "withdrawal" and "cancellation" of the permits.
In his view, the orders complained against deprived Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd., of the fruits of the 591 decree obtained by them at the hands of the High Court after much expenditure of time and money.
An examination of the relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act does not support the view that the issue of a permit for a bus which falls within the definition of a "stage carriage " is necessarily dependent on the ownership of vehicle.
All that is required for obtaining a permit is possession of the bus.
As ownership is not a condition precedent for the grant of permits and as a person can get a permit provided he is in possession of a vehicle which satisfies the requirements of the statute or the rules framed thereunder, we have to hold that the parties and the authorities were labouring under a misconception if they entertained a contrary view.
But the assumption on which they proceeded may perhaps be explained, if not justified, on the ground that it was supposed that the question of ownership of the vehicles had an important or material bearing on the question as to which of them had a preferen tialclaim for the permits.
It may well be it Was one of the factors to be taken into account and it seems to us that this was apparently the reason why the question of issue of permanent permits was postponed from time to time till we come to the order of the Government dated 29th March, on petitions presented by both the contestants.
If matters had stood as they were till the Government had made this order, something could have been said in favour of Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd., in the event of their ultimate success in the High Court as regards the title to the five buses.
But the said order altered the situation.
In the order, the direction for the grant of permanent permits is not rested solely on the decision of the Sub Court in favour of Veerappa Pillai but another reason was also given, namely, that Government considered it undesirable to keep the buses running on temporary permits for a long and indefinite period.
In giving this reason, they were stating a policy.
77 592 As observed already, the High Court by their judg ment dated 2nd September, 1949, reversed the decree of the Subordinate Judge and dismissed Veerappa Pillai 's suit for possession of the buses based on his title.
If it were the law that the question of possession based on ownership was decisive as regards the grant of permits, and if no other circumstances were available to be taken into account when the question of the issue of permanent permits again came up for consideration, it would have been easy to hold that Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd., had at least a preferential claim.
But unfortunately for them, both these requisites are not satisfied.
It has been point ed out already that nowhere do we find in the Act anything to indicate that the issue of permits depends on ownership.
Other circumstances which had a material bear ing as to which of them was entitled to the permits had come into existence since the date of the original joint application and were taken into account by the transport authorities and by the Government.
The order of 19th January, 1950, of the Regional Transport Authority sought