 to render rough and ready justice between the par ties by the adoption of what may be called a middle course.
The terms of the order have already been set out.
Before disposing of the appeals of both the parties, the Central Traffic Board appears to have called for a report from the Regional Transport Officer.
In this report, attention was drawn to the fact that all the five buses had been replaced by new vehicles and that the registration certificates had been cancelled as a result of the replacement.
After Balasubramania Pillai, it was Veerappa Pillai who was running the buses continuously on this route for nearly 5 years and he also obtained the privilege of securing the permanent permits.
The Central Traffic Board 's order of 3rd March, 1950, restoring the permanent permits of Veerappa Pillai was based on the fact that Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd. asked for withdrawal of the permits and not their cancellation and that no opportunity had been given to Veerappa Pillai to show cause why his permits should not be cancelled; and 593 the procedure prescribed for cancellation was not followed.
When the Government was moved by Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd., under section 64 (a) of the Motor Vehicles Act, they had before them a petition for withdrawal of the perma nent permits issued to Veerappa Pillai and for transfer or grant of five 'pucca permits ' relating to the five buses.
The Government granted stay of the appellate order of the Central Road Traffic Board pending disposal of the revision petition 'and called for a report from the subordinate trans port authorities.
Two important facts were brought to the notice of the Government in the report Messrs. Raman and Raman Ltd. did not file any objections to the renewal of the permits sought by Veerappa Pillai.
What is more important, they had no permits from the French authorities enabling them to run any buses on the portion of the route which lay in French territory.
It was further pointed out that there was no subsisting joint application to support the request for transfer and that the original permits in the name of Bala. subramanian had ceased to exist after 31st December 1944.
The Government had also before them two petitions dated 8th March, 1950, and 25th October, 1950, from Messrs Raman and Raman Ltd. and two petitions dated 29th March, 1950, and 8th June, 1950, from Veerappa Pillai.
It is on the basis of all these materials that the Government de clined to interfere with the decision of the Central Road Traffic Board.
It is contended for the appellant that in this state of affairs the High Court acting under Article 226 of the Constitution had no right to interfere with the orders of the transport authorities.
It is unnecessary for the disposal of this appeal to consider and decide on the exact scope and extent of the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226.
Whether the writs it can issue must be analogous to the writs of habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto and certiorari specified therein and the power is subject to all the limitations, or restrictions 594 imposed on the exercise of this jurisdiction, or whether the High Court is at liberty to issue any "suitable directions or orders or writs untramelled ,by any condi tions, whenever the interests of justice so require, is a large and somewhat difficult problem which does not arise for solution now.
Mr. Setalvad appearing for the appellant urged two narrower grounds as sufficient for his purposes.
Firstly, he urged that however wide the jurisdiction of the High Court might be under Article 226, it could never exer c