ise its powers under the article in such a manner as to convert itself into a court of appeal sitting in judgment over every tribunal or authority in the State discharging administrative or quasi judicial functions.
Secondly, he maintained that the Motor Vehicles Act with the rules framed thereunder dealing with the grant of permits is a self contained code and that in respect of the rights and liabil ities created by such a statute the manner of enforcement must be sought within the statute itself.
It was further urged by him that in any event, the High Court could not substitute its own view or discretion for the view taken or discretion exercised by the specified authorities, even if it was erroneous or unsound.
Such writs as are referred to in Article 226 are obvi ously intended to enable the High Court to issue them in grave cases where the subordinate tribunals or bodies or officers act wholly without jurisdiction, or in excess of it, or in violation of the principles of natural justice, or refuse to exercise a jurisdiction vested in them, or there is an error apparent on the face of the record, and such act, omission, error, or excess has resulted in manifest injustice.
However extensive the jurisdiction may be, it seems to us that it is not so wide or large as to enable the High Court to convert itself into a Court of appeal and examine for itself the correctness of the decision impugned and decide what is the proper view to be taken or the order to be made Mr. Daphtary, who appeared for the respondent, said nothing to controvert this position.
His argument 595 was that if all along the authorities and the Government had proceeded upon a particular footing and dealt with the rights of the parties on that basis, it was not open to them afterwards to change front and give the go by altogether to the conception of the rights of parties entertained by them till then.
According to him, there was manifest injustice to his client in allowing them to do so and this was the reason which impelled the High Court to make the order which is the subject matter of challenge in this appeal.
The Motor Vehicles Act is a statute which creates new rights and liabilities and prescribes an elaborate procedure for their regulation.
No one is entitled to a permit as of right even if he satisfies all the prescribed conditions.
The grant of a permit is entirely within the discretion of the transport authorities and naturally depends on several circumstances which have to be taken into account.
The Regional Transport Authority and the Provincial Transport Authority are entrusted under section 42 with this power.
They may be described as administrative bodies exercising quasijudicial functions in the matter of the grant of per mits.
Under rule 8 of the Madras Motor Vehicles Rules the Regional Transport Authority is called the Road Traffic Board and the Provincial Transport Authority is called the Central Road Traffic Board.
These bodies or authorities are constituted by the Provincial ' Government.
The matters which are to be taken into account in granting or refusing a stage carriage permit are specified in section 47.
By delegation under rule 134 A, the Secretary of the Road Traf fic Board may exercise certain powers as regards the grant or refusal of stage carriage permits and under rule 136 there is an appeal to the Board from these orders.
Similar powers of delegation are vested in the Secretary to the Central Board and an appeal lies to the Central Board under rule 148(1).
From an original order of the Road Traffic Board there is an appeal to the Central Board and from the original orders of the Central Board to the Government, vide rules 147 and 148 An amendment introduced by the Madras Act XX of 1948 596 and found as section 64 A in the Act vests a power of revi sion in the Provincial Government.
Besides this specific provision, there is a general provision in section