 43 A that the Provincial Government may issue such orders and direc tions of a general character as it may consider necessary to the Provincial Transport Authority or a Regional Transport Authority in respect of any matter relating to road trans port; and such transport authority shall give effect to all such orders and directions.
There is, therefore, a regular hierarchy of administrative bodies established to deal with the regulation of transport by means of motor vehicles.
Thus we have before us a complete and precise scheme for regulating the issue of permits, providing what matters are to be taken into consideration as relevant, and prescribing appeals and revisions from subordinate bodies to higher authorities.
The remedies for the redress of grievances or the correction of errors are found in the statute itself and it is to these remedies that resort must generally be had.
As observed already, the issue or refusal of permits is solely within the discretion of the transport authorities and it is not a matter of right.
We are accordingly of opinion that this was not a case for interference with the discretion that was exercised by the Transport Authorities paying regard to all the facts and the surrounding circumstances.
Further, it will be noticed that the High Court here did not content itself with merely quashing the proceedings, it went further and directed the Regional Transport Authority, Tanjore, "to grant to the petitioner permits in respect of the five buses in respect of which a joint application was made originally by the petitioner and Balasubramania Pillai and that in case the above buses have been condemned, the petitioner shall be at liberty to provide substitutes within such time as may be prescribed by the authorities.
" Such a direction was clearly in excess of its powers and jurisdic tion.
597 For the reasons given above, the appeal is allowed and the order of the High Court set aside.
Each party will bear their own costs of these proceedings throughout.
Appeal allowed.
Agent for respondent No. 1: M.S.K. Sastri.
Agent for respondent No. 4: P.A. Mehta.
