N: Criminal Appeal No. 13 of 1951.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the High Court of Madras (Rajamannar C.J. and Balakrishna Ayyar J.) dated 10 th April, 1950, in Contempt Application No. 10 of 1949.
426 S.P. Sinha (S.S. Prakasam, with him), for the appellant.
R. Ganapathy Iyer, for the respondent.
February 14.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by MUKHERJEA J.
This appeal has come up before us on special leave granted by this court on May 23, 1950, and it is directed against a judgment of a Division Bench of the Madras High Court dated April 10, 1950, by which the learned Judges found the appellant guilty of contempt of court and sentenced him to serve simple imprisonment for three months.
The appellant is the publisher and managing editor of a Telugu Weekly known as "Praja Rajyam" which is edited and published at Nellore in the State of Madras.
In the issue of the said paper dated 10th February, 1949, an article appeared under the caption "Is the Sub Magistrate, Kovvur, corrupt?" The purport of the article was that Surya Narayan Murthi, the stationary Sub Magistrate of Kovvur, was known to the people of the locality to be a bribe taker and to be in the habit of harassing litigants in various ways.
He was said to have a broker, through whom negotiations in connec tion with these corrupt practices were carried on.
Several specific instances were cited of cases tried by that offi cer, where it was rumoured that he had either taken bribes or had put the parties to undue harassment, because they were obdurate enough to refuse the demands of his broker.
The article, which is a short one, concludes with the fol lowing paragraph: "There are party factions in many villages in Kovvur Taluk.
Taking advantage of those parties many wealthy persons make attempt to get the opposite party punished either by giving bribes or making recommendations.
To appoint Magistrates who run after parties for a Taluk like this. . is to betray the public.
It is tantamount to failure of justice.
Will the Collector enquire into the matter and allay the public of their fears?" 427 The attention of the State Government being drawn to this article, an application was filed by the AdvocateGener al of Madras before the High Court on November 14, 1949, under section 2 of the Contempt of Courts Act (Act XII of 1926) praying that suitable action might be taken against the appellant as well as three other persons, of whom two were respectively the editor and sub editor of the paper, while the third was the owner of the Press where the paper was printed.
On receiving notice, the appellant appeared before the High Court and filed an affidavit taking sole responsibility for the article objected to and asserting that the article was published because of his anxiety to uphold the highest traditions of the judiciary in the land and to create popular confidence in courts, the duty of which was to dispense justice without fear or favour and without any discrimination of caste, creed or community.
It was said that before the article was published, numerous complaints had reached him from various quarters imputing corruption and disreputable conduct to this Magistrate and the only desire of the appellant was to draw the attention of the higher authorities to the state of public opinion in the matter and to invite an enquiry into the truth or otherwise of the allegations which were not asserted as facts but were based