 only on hearsay.
The High Court after hearing the parties came to the conclusion that the publication in question did amount to contempt of court, as it was calculated to lower the pres tige and dignity of courts and bring into disrepute the administration of justice.
As the appellant was not prepared to substantiate the allegations which he made and which he admitted to be based on hearsay and did not think it proper even to express any regret for what he had done, the court sentenced him to simple imprisonment for three months.
The other three respondents, through their counsel, tendered unqualified apology to the court and the learned Judges considered that no further action against them was necessary.
428 The propriety of the decision of the High Court so far as it relates to the appellant has been challenged before us in this appeal and Mr. Sinha, who appeared in support of the same, raised before us a two fold contention; his first and main contention is that as the contempt in this case was said to have been committed in respect of a court subordi nate to the High Court and the allegations made in the article in question constitute an offence under section 499 of the Indian Penal Code, the jurisdiction of the High Court to take cognizance of such a case is expressly barred under section 2 (3) of the Contempt of Courts Act.
The other contention advanced by the learned counsel relates to the merits of the case and it is urged that in publishing the article objected to, the appellant acted in perfect good faith, and as the article amounted to nothing else but a demand for enquiry into the conduct of a particular person who was believed to be guilty of corrupt practices in the discharge of his judicial duties, there was no contempt of court either intended or committed by the appellant.
So far as the first point is concerned, the determina tion of the question raised by the appellant would depend upon the proper interpretation to be put upon section 2(3) of the Contempt of Courts Act which runs as follows : "No High Court shall take cognizance of a contempt alleged to have been committed in respect of a court subor dinate to it where such contempt is an offence punishable under the Indian Penal Code.
" According to Mr. Sinha, what the sub section means is that if the act by which a party is alleged to have commit ted contempt of a subordinate court constitutes offence of any description whatsoever punishable under the Indian Penal Code, the High Court is precluded from taking cognizance of it.
It is said that in the present case the allegations made in the article in question amount to an offence of defama tion as defined by section 499 of the Indian Penal Code and consequently the jurisdiction of the High Court is barred.
Reliance 429 is placed in support of this proposition upon the decision of the Nagpur High Court in Kisan Krishna Ji vs Nagpur Conference of Society of St. Vincent de Paul(1).
This con tention, though somewhat plausible at first sight, does not appear to us to be sound.
In our opinion, the sub section referred to above excludes the jurisdiction of High Court only.
in cases where the acts alleged to constitute contempt of a subordinate court are punishable as contempt under specific provisions of the Indian Penal Code but not where these acts merely amount to offences of other description for which punishment has been provided for in the Indian Penal Code.
This would be clear from the language of the sub section which uses the words "where such contempt is an offence" and does not say "where the act alleged to consti tute such contempt is an offence".
It is argued that if such was the intention of the Legislature, it could have express ly said that the High Court 's jurisdiction will be ousted only when the contempt is punishable as such under the Indian Penal Code