.
It seems to us that the reason for not using such language in the sub section may be that the expression "contempt of court" has not been used as descrip tion of any offence in the Indian Penal Code, though certain acts, which would be punishable as contempt of court in England, are made offences under it.
It may be pointed out in this connection that al though the powers of the High Courts in India established under the Letters Patent to exercise jurisdiction as Superi or Courts of Record in punishing contempt of their authority or processes have never been doubted, it was a controversial point prior to the passing of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1926, as to whether the High Court could, like the Court of King 's Bench in England, punish contempt of courts subordi nate to it in exercise of its inherent jurisdiction.
The doubt has been removed by Act XII of 1926 which expressly declares the right of the High Court to protect subordinate courts against contempt, but (1) (1943) A.I.R. 1943 Nag.
430 subject to this restriction, that cases of contempt which have already been provided for in the Indian Penal Code should not be taken cognizance of by the High Court.
This seems to be the principle underlying section 2(3)of the Contempt of Courts Act.
What these cases are need not be exhaustively determined for purposes of the present case, but some light is undoubtedly thrown upon this matter by the provision of section 480 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which empowers any civil, criminal or revenue court to punish summarily a person who is found guilty of committing any offence under sections 176, 178, 179, 180 or section 228 of the Indian Penal Code in the view or presence of the court.
We are not prepared to say, as has been said by the Patna High Court in Jnanendra prasad vs Gopal(1), that the only section of the Indian Penal Code which deals with contempt committed against a court of justice or judicial officer is section 228.
Offences under sections 175, 178, 179 and 180 may also, as section 480 of the Criminal Proce dure Code shows, amount to contempt of court if the "public servant" referred to in these sections happens to be a judicial officer in a particular case.
It is well known that the aim of the contempt proceeding is "to deter men from offering any indignities to a court of justice" and an essential feature of the proceeding is the exercise of a summary power by the court itself in regard to the delin quent.
In the cases mentioned in section 480 of the Indian Penal Code, the court has been expressly given summary powers to punish a person who is guilty of offending its dignity in the manner indicated in the section.
The court is competent also under section 482 of the Criminal Proce dure Code to forward any case of this description to a Magistrate having jurisdiction to try it, if it considers that the offender deserves a higher punishment than what can be inflicted under section 480.
Again, the court is enti tled under section 484 to discharge the offender on his submitting an apology, although it has already adjudged him to punishment under section Pat.
172. 431 or forwarded his case for trial under section 482.
The mode of purging contempt by tendering apology is a further char acteristic of a contempt proceeding.
It seems, therefore, that there are offences which are punishable as contempt under the Indian Penal Code and as subordinate courts can sufficiently vindicate their dignity under the provisions of criminal law in such cases the legislature deemed it proper to exclude them from the jurisdiction of the High Court under section 2(3) of the Contempt of Courts