 Act;but it would not be correct to ' say that the High Court 's juris diction is excluded even in cases where the act complained of, which is alleged to constitute contempt, is otherwise an offence under the Indian Penal Code.
This view has been taken and, in our opinion quite rightly, in a number of decisions by the Calcutta,(1) Patna,(2) Allahabad(3) and Lahore(4) High Courts.
The only authority which Mr. Sinha could cite in support of his contention is the decision of the Nagpur High Court in Kisan Krishna Ji vs Nagpur Conference of Society of St. Vincent de Paul(").
The authority is undoubtedly in his favour as it proceeds upon the assumption that the idea underlying the provision of section 2(3) of the Contempt of Courts Act is that if a person can be punished by some other tribunal, then the High Court should not entertain any proceeding for contempt.
It is to be noticed that the learned Judge, who decided this case, himself took the opposite view in the case of Subordinate Judge, First Class, Hoshangabad vs Jawaharlal(6) and definitely held that the prohibition contained in section 2(3) of the Contempt of Courts Act refers to offences punishable as contempt of court by the Indian Penal Code and not to offences punishable otherwise than as contempt.
This decision was neither noticed nor dissented from in the subsequent case, and it is quite possible that (1) Narayan Chandra vs Panehu Pramanik (A.I.R. ; Naresh Kumar.v.
Umaromar (A.I.R. 1951 Cal.
(2)Kaulashia vs Emperor (12 Pat. 1).
(3) State vs Brahma Prakash (A.I.R. 1950 All. 556); Emperor vs Jagannath (A.I.R. 1938 All. 358).
(4) Bennett Coleman vs G. section Monga (I.L.R. (5) A.I.R. 1943 Nag.
(6) A.I.R. 1940 Nag.
56 432 the attention of the learned judge was not drawn to this earlier pronouncement of his, in which case the matter would certainly have been more fully discussed.
We think further that the decision of the Calcutta High Court in V.M. Bason vs A. H. Skone(1) which was the basis of the decision of the learned Judge in the subsequent case does not really support the view taken in it.
In the Calcutta case what happened was, that a clerk of the Attorney, who appeared for the respondent decreeholder, went to serve a notice under Order 21, Rule 37(1), of the Civil Procedure Code upon the appellant judgment debtor.
The judgmentdebtor refused to take the notice and abused and assaulted the Attorney 's clerk.
Upon that, contempt proceedings were started against him and Mr. Justice C.C. Ghosh, sitting on the Original Side of the High Court of Calcutta, held the appellant guilty of contempt and fined him Rs. 200.
On appeal, this judgment was affirmed by the appellate Bench and there was a general observation made by Chief Justice Sanderson at the close of his judgment that it is not desirable to invoke the special inherent jurisdiction of the High Court by way of proceeding for contempt if ordinary proceedings in a Magistrate 's court are sufficient to meet the requirements of a case.
This was not a case under section 2(3) of the Contempt of Courts Act at all and no question either arose or was decided as to whether if an act is otherwise punishable as an offence under the Indian Penal Code the jurisdiction of the High Court under that section would be ousted.
