Undoubtedly the High Court had jurisdiction in that case and whether such jurisdiction, which is certainly of a special character and is exercised summarily, should be called in to aid in the circumstances of a particular case would depend upon the discretion of the court.
This has, however, no bearing on the point that has arisen for consideration before us.
We would hold, therefore, that the right view was taken by the learned Judge of the Nagpur High Court in the earlier case and not in the later one, (1) I.L R. 433 It is next urged by Mr. Sinha that even assuming that this view is correct, the language of section 499 of the Indian Penal Code is wide enough to cover a case of contempt of court.
What is said is, that if a libel is published against a judge in respect of his judicial functions, that also is defamation within the meaning of section 499 of the Indian Penal Code and as such libel constitutes a contempt of court, it may be said with perfect propriety that libel on a judge is punishable as contempt under the Indian Penal Code.
We do not think that this contention can be accepted as sound.
A libellous reflection upon the conduct of a judge in respect of his judicial duties may certainly come under section 499 of the Indian Penal Code and it may be open to the judge to take steps against the libeller in the ordinary way for vindication of his character and personal dignity as a judge; but such libel may or may not amount to contempt of court.
As the Privy Council observed in Surendra Nath Banerjee vs The Chief Justice and Judges of the High Court,(1) "although contempt may include defamation, yet an offence of contempt is something more than mere defamation and is of a different character.
" When the act of defaming a judge is calculated to obstruct or interfere with the due course of justice or proper administration of law, it would certainly amount to contempt.
TIle offence of con tempt is really a wrong done to the public by weakening the authority and influence of courts of law which exist for their good.
As was said by Willmot, C.J.(2) "attacks upon the judges excite in the minds of the people a general dissatisfaction with all judicial determi nations. and whenever man 's allegiance to the laws is so fundamentally shaken it is the most fatal and dangerous obstruction of justice and in my opinion calls out for a more rapid and immediate redress than any other obstruction whatsoever; not for the sake of the judges as private indi viduals but because they are the channels by which the King 's justice is conveyed to the people".
(1) I.L.R. at 131.
(2) Willmot 's Opinions page 256; Rex vs Davies 30 at p. 40 41. 434 What is made punishable in the Indian Penal Code is the offence of defamation as defamation and not as.
contempt of court.
If the defamation of a subordinate court amounts to contempt of court, proceedings can certainly be taken under section 2 of the Contempt of Courts Act, quite apart from the fact that other remedy may be open to the aggrieved officer under section 499 of the Indian Penal Code.
But a libel attacking the integrity of a judge may not in the circumstances of a particular case amount to a contempt at all, although it may be the subject matter of a libel pro ceeding.
This is clear from the observation of the Judicial Committee in the case of The Matter of a Special Reference from the Bahama Islands(1).
The first contention of Mr. Sinha, therefore, fails.
The second point raised by the learned counsel does not appear to us to have any real substance.
The article in question is a scurr