eal No. XIII of 1950.
Appeal from a judgment and decree of a Division Bench of the Madras High Court (Wadsworth and Rajamannar JJ.) dated 27th November, 1945, in Appeal No. 518 of 1941, reversing the judgment of the Subordinate Judge of Mayuram dated 10th July, 1944, in Original Suit No. 34 of 1943.
B. Somayya (R. Ramamurti, with him) for the appel lant.
951 K.S. Krishnaswami Aiyangar (K. Narasimha Aiyangar, with him) for respondent No. 1. 1950.
December 21.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by MUKHERJEA J.
This appeal is directed against an appellate judgment of a Division Bench of the Madras High Court dated November 27, 1945, reversing the decision of the Subordinate Judge of ' Mayuram made in Original Suit No. 34 of 1943.
There is no dispute about the material facts of the case which lie within a short compass and the controversy centers round one point only which turns upon the construction of a will left by one Kothandarama Ayyar to whom the properties in suit admittedly belonged.
Kothandarama, who was a Hindu inhabitant of the District of Tanjore and owned considerable properties, died on 25th April 1905, leaving behind him as his near relations his adoptive mother Valu Ammal, his widow Parbari and two daughters Nagammal and Gnanambal, of whom Nagammal,who became a widow during the testator 's life time had an infant daughter named Alamelu Kothandarama executed his last will on 13th March, 1905, and by this will, the genuineness of which is not disputed in the present litigation, he gave an authority to his widow to adopt unto him a son of his second daughter Gnanambal, should she beget one before January., 1908, or in the alter native any of the sons of his two nephews, if the widow so chose.
The suit, out of which the appeal arises, was commenced by Raju Ayyar, who was a son of the testator 's nephews and was taken in adoption by the widow in terms of the will; and it was for recovery of possession of certain properties, known as Kothangudi properties which formed part of the testator 's estate on the allegation that under the will mentioned above, these properties were given to Nagarnmal, the wid owed daughter of the testator for her life time, but as there was no disposition of the remaining interest after the death of the life tenant, the properties vested in the 952 plaintiff as the adopted son and heir of the deceased on the death of Nagammal which took place on 3rd of January, 1943.
Gnanambal, the second daughter of the testator, was the first and main defendant in the suit, and she resisted the plaintiff 's claim primarily on the ground that there was no intestacy as regards the suit properties after the termina tion of the life interest of Nagammal, and that under the terms of the will itself she was entitled to get these properties in absolute right after the death of Nagammal, subject to payment of a sum of Rs. 5,000 to Alamelu, the daughter of Nagammal.
Alamelu was made the second defendant in the suit and as she died when the suit was pending in the trial court, her heirs were impleaded