 as defendants 3 to 9.
The first court accepted the contention of the defendant No. 1 and dismissed the plaintiff 's suit.
On appeal to the High Court, the judgment was reversed and the plaintiff 's claim was allowed.
The defendant No. 1 has now come up appeal to this court.
To appreciate the contentions that have been raised by the parties to this appeal, it would be convenient first of all to refer briefly to the relevant provisions of the will: After cancelling his previous wills.
the testator in the third paragraph of his will, gave his widow authority to adopt a son.
She was to adopt the son of Gnanambal, if the latter got a son previous to January 1908, or she could adopt any of the sons of the testator 's nephews.
Paragraph 4 provides that if the first course is followed, that is, if the son of Gnanambal is adopted by the widow, then all the properties, movable and immovable, belonging to the testator excepting the village of Kothangudi, the house at Injigudi and the other properties which were disposed of by the will would go to such adopted son.
Paragraph 5, which is materi al for our present purposes runs as follows:. "The whole village of Kothangudi and the house at Injigudi, both of Nannilam Taluk, my daughter Nagammal, shall enjoy with life interest and after her the said property shall pass to my daughter Gnanambal and her chil dren on payment by the latter of Rs. 5,000 to Alamelu Nagam mal 's daughter.
" 953 By the sixth paragraph the Nallathukudi and Pungavur villages together with certain house property at Mayavaram are given to the testaor 's adoptive mother and wife in equal shares to be enjoyed by both of them during their life time and after their death they are to pass on to the adopted son.
Paragraph 7 gives a small h.use absolutely to Nagammal for her residence and paragraph 8 makes certain provisions for management of the properties.
In paragraph 9 direction is given to collect the money due on the insurance policy on the life of the testator and to pay off his debts.
Pragraph 10 mentions certain charities, the expenses of which are to be derrayed from the income of the Nallathukudi properties.
Paragraph 11 then says that in the event of the widow adopt ing any of the nephew 's sons of the testator, such son shall inherit the entire property at Kokkur and also the lands of Nallathukudi after the death of the testator 's wife and mother.
By paragraph 12, the village of Maruthanthanallur is given to Gnanambal and paragraph 13 provides that "the village of Kothangudi shall be enjoyed by Nagammal as stated in paragraph 5" By paragraphs 15 and 16 the remainder in the house at Mayavaram situated in the east row of Vellalar kovil Street is given to Gnanambal after the death of the testator 's wife and mother.
Paragraph 18 provides for cer tain other charities.
In paragraph 20 it is stated that if the wife of the testator should die before January, 1908, without making any adoption, then the eldest or any son of Gnanambal would be his adopted son without any formality and inherit all the properties subject to the conditions men tioned in the will.
Paragraph 21, which is the penultimate paragraph in the will, further lays down that if all the three contingencies fail and no adoption is taken,