 the male child or children born to Gnanambal shall inherit as grand sons all the properties of the testator, subject to the conditions specified in the will.
These, in brief, are the dispositions made in the will.
The plaintiff founds him claim upon paragraph 13 of the will which, according to him, contains the enire disposition so far as the Kothangudi 954 property is concerned.
That village is given to Nagarm mal for her life with no disposition of the remaining inter est.
If the remainder has not been disposed of, there is no doubt that the plaintiff would be entitled to the property as the heir of the testator under the ordinary law of inher itance.
The defendant No. 1.
on the other hand, relies on para graph 5 of the will, which gives the Kothangudi village and the Injigudi house to Nagammal to he enjoyed by her so long as she lives and after her death they are to go to Gnanambal and her children subject to the payment of a sum of Rs. 5,000 to be paid to Alamelu, the daughter of Nagammal.
The High Court on a construction of the will has found in favour of the plaintiff primarily on the ground that in the contingency which happened in the present case, viz., that the widow took in adoption a nephew 's son of the testa tor, paragraph 5 of the will did not come into operation at all.
The disposition as regards Kothangudi property is, therefore, to be found exclusively in paragraph 13 of the will and the actual words employed by the testator in that paragraph do not indicate that apart from Nagammal 's taking a life estate in the Kothangudi village the rest of the provisions in regard to this property as laid down in para graph 5 would also be incorporated into paragraph 13.
An Obvious difficulty, according to the learned Judges, in accepting the construction sought to be put upon the will by defendant No. 1 is that paragraph 5 speaks both of Kothan gudi and Injigudi properties, whereas paragraph 13 does not mention the Injigudi house at all, nor does it purport to give a life interest in the same to Nagammal.
It could not be reasonably held on a construction of the will that the intention of the testator was that Gnanambal was to pay Rs. 5,000 to Alamelu for the Kothangudi property alone.
The result was that the plaintiff 's claim was allowed.
It is the propriety of this decision that has been challenged before us in this appeal.
In course of the arguments, we have been referred by the learned Counsel on both sides to quite a large 955 number of decided authorities, both English and Indian, in support of their respective contentions.
It is seldom prof itable to compare the words of one will with those of anoth er or to attempt to find out to which of the wills upon which decisions have been: given in reported cases, the will before us approximates closely.
Cases are helpful only in so far as they purport to lay down certain general princi ples of construction and at the present day these general principles seem to be fairly well settled.
The cardinal maxim to be observed by courts in constru ing a will is to endeavour to ascertain the intentions of the testator.
This intention has to be gathered primarily from the language of the document which is to be read as a whole without indulging in any conjecture or speculation as to what the testator would have done if he had been better informed or better advised.
In construing the language of the will as the Privy Council observed in Venkata