 Narasimha vs Parthasarathy (1), "the courts are entitled and bound to bear in mind other matters than merely the words used.
They must consider the surrounding circumstances, the position of the testator, 'his family relationship, the probability that he would use words in a particular sense, and many other things which are often summed up in the somewhat picturesque figure 'The court is entitled to put itself into the testator 's armchair ' .
But all this is solely as an aid to arriving at a right construction of the will, and to ascertain the meaning of its language when used by that particular testator in that document.
So soon as the con struction is settled, the.duty of the court is to carry out the intentions as expressed, and none other.
The court is in no case justified in adding to testamentary dispositions.
In all cases it must loyally carry out the will as properly construed, and this duty is universal, and is true alike of wills of every nationality and every religion or rank of life." A question is sometimes raised as to whether in constru ing a will the court should lean against (1) 42 I.A. 51 at p.70.
956 intestacy.
The desire to avoid intestacy was considered by the Privy Council in the case referred to above as a rule based on English necessity and English habits of thought which should not necessarily bind an Indian court.
It seems that a presumption against intestacy may be raised if it is justified by the context of the document or the surrounding circumstances; "but it can be invoked only when there is undoubted ambiguity in acertainment of the intentions of the testator.
As Lord Justice Romer observed in Re Edwards; Jones vs Jones (1), "it cannot be that merely with a view to avoiding intestacy you are to do otherwise than construe plain words according to their plain meaning".
It is in the light of the above principles that we should proceed to examine the contents of the will before us.
The present will, which is the last of four testamentary document executed by the testator, appears to have been prepared with a great deal of care and circumspection.
The testator had clearly in mind the different situations that might arise in case his widow adopted either Gnanambal 's son or a son of one of the nephews of the testator.
He envis aged also the possibility of the widow dying without making any adoption at all.
Besides the son to be adopted, the only other relations who had natural claims upon the affection and bounty of the testator and for whom he desired to make provisions were his wife, his adoptive mother, the two datughters and the infant grand daughter.
The interests given to his wife, the adoptive mother and the eldest daugh ter, who were all widows, were for their life time, except a small house property which was given absolutely for the residence of the eldest daughter.
On the other hand., the bequests in favour of Gnanambal, who was a married daughter, and the adopted son of the testator, were absolute in their character.
Besides these dispositions, there were certain gifts for charity which were to be met out of the income of the properties given to the wife and the adoptive mother for their lives.
One singular feature (1) [1906]1 Ch. 570 at p. 574. 957 in the will is that the testator took scrupulous care to include in it every item of property that he owned.
There are two provisions in the will relating Kothan gudi property to which the dispute in the present suit relates.
One is in paragraph 5 which gives this property along with the house at Injigudi to Nagamm