al, the remainder being given to the appellant subject to the payment of a sum of Rs. 5, 000 to Alamelu, the daughter of Nagammal.
The other is in paragraph 13, which merely says that Nagammal was to get it for life as stated in paragraph 5.
The view taken by the High Court and which has been pressed for our acceptance here by the learned Counsel for the respondents is that paragraph 5 was meant to be operative only if Gna nambal 's son was adopted by the widow.
As that was not done, paragraphs 4 to 8 of the will, it is urged, will go out of the picture alttgether and it is not permissible to refer to them except to the extent that they were impliedly incorporated in the subsequent paragraphs of the will.
We do not think that this is the correct way of reading the document.
The testator undoubtedly contemplated different contingencies; but a reading of the whole will does not show that he wanted to make separate and self contained provisions with regard to each of the contingencies that might arise and that each set of provisions were to be read as exclusive of the other set or sets.
That does not appear to be the scheme of the will.
The testator 's main desire undoubtedly was that his widow should adopt the son of his daughter Gnanambal, and in the first part his will after making provisions for his two daughters, his wife and adoptive mother and also for certain charities, he left the rest of his properties to the son of Gnanambal that was to be adopted by his widow.
In the second part of the will, which is comprised in paragraphs 11 to 16, the testator sets out the modifications which he desires to make in the earli er dispositions in case a son of one of his nephews was adopted by the widow.
It was not the intention of the testa tor that on the happening of the second contingency, all 958 the earlier provisions of the will would stand cancelled and the entire dispositions of the testator 's property would have to be found within the four corners of paragraphs 11 to 16 of the will.
In our opinion, the provisions made for the two daughters, the widow and the adoptive mother as made in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of the will and also the provisions for charities and payment of debts contained in paragraphs 9 and 10 were meant to be applicable under all the three contingencies referred to above.
This is clear from the fact that provisions of paragraphs 7, 9 and 10 have not been repeated or incorporated in paragraphs 11 to 16, although it cannot be suggested that they were not to take effect on the happening of the second contingency.
Again in the third contingency contemplated by the testator, which is described in paragraph 20, it is expressly stated that if no adoption is made, the eldest or any son of Gnanambal would inher it the properties and he shall take the properties subject to the conditions mentioned in the will.
The conditions spoken of here undoubtedly refer to the provi sions made for the mother, wife and the two daughters of the testator as well as in respect to payment of debts and carrying out of the charities specified in paragraph 10.
The changes that are to take effect on the happening of the second event are in regard to the bequests in favour of the adopted son.
Under paragraph 4 of the will, the adopted son was to get all the p. roperties of the testator with the exception of those given to the two daughters, the mother and the wife.
Under paragraph 11, if the adoption is of a nephew 's son of the testator, the adopted son gets only