 the Kokkur properties and the reversionary interestin Nallathukudi village after the death of the testator 's wife and mother.
The village Maruthanthanallur which would go to the adopted son under paragraph 4 is taken away under para graph 11 and is given to Gnanambal.
She is also given the remaining interest in the Mayavaram house which was given to the adopted son under paragraph 6.
Subject to the changes thus made, the provisions 959 of paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 would, in our opinion, still remain operative even if the person adopted was a nephew 's son of the testator.
No change is made in paragraphs 11 to 16 with regard to the provision in paragraph 5 of the will.
In paragraph 13 it is only stated that the village Kothangudi shall be enjoyed by Nagammal as stated in paragraph 5.
It may be conceded that this statement by itself does not let in the entire provision of paragraph 5, but that is not material for our present purpose.
It is enough that para graph 5 has not been changed or altered in any way.
The statement in paragraph 13 may, after all, be a loose expres sion which the testator used only for the purpose of empha sising that the Kothangudi village would be enjoyed by Nagammal even if Gnanambal 's son was not adopted.
This is not by way of making any new disposition, but only to affirm what has been already done.
The affirmation of a portion of the provision which is perfectly superfluous cannot exclude the rest.
It is somewhat difficult to say why the rest of the provisions in paragraph 5, particularly the benefit that was meant to be given to Alamelu, was not repeated in para graph 13.
It may be that the testator did not consider it necessary or it may be that it was due to inadvertance.
It is to be noted here that the testator did not mention any where in paragraphs 11 to 16 the small house that was given absolutely to Nagamreal under paragraph 7.
It was certainly not the intention of the testator that Nagammal would not have that house on the happening of the second contingency.
If paragraph 5 itself is held to be applicable and in our opinion it should be so held there is no question of adding to or altering any of the words made use of by the testator.
It is not a question of making a new will for the testator or inventing a bequest for certain persons simply because the will shows that they were the objects of the testator 's affection.
The provision is in the will itself and it is only a question of interpretation as to whether it is ap plicable in the circumstances which have happened in the present case.
The position, therefore, seems 960 to be that the disposition made in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, which were in favour of the mother, the wife and the two daughters of the testator were meant to take effect immedi ately on the testator 's death.
They were not contingent gifts in the sense of being made dependent upon the adoption of Gnanambal 's son by the wife of the testator.
Only the reversionary interest in the Mayavaram house, which was to vest in the adopted son under the provision of paragraph 6 after the death of the widow and the mother was taken away from the adopted son and given to Gnanambal in case the person adopted was not her own son.
If the whole of para graph 5 remains operative the Injigudi house must also be deemed to have been given to Nagammal for her life and in fact the