No. 37 of 1950.
Appeal from a judgment of the Bombay High Court (Chagla C.J. and Dixit J.) in Appeal No. 281 of 1947.
K. section Krishnaswami Aiyangar (K. Narasimha Aiyangar, with him) for the appellant.
M.C. Setalvad, Attorney General for India, (B. Sen, with him) for the respondent.
December 1.
The Judgment of the court was deliv ered by CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
This appeal, preferred ch from the decree of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 281 of 1947, raises the question whether an execution application seeking to execute a final decree, passed by the let Class Subordinate Judge 's Court at Poona, on 6th December, 1932, for a sum of Rs. 1,24,215 and odd, is barred by limitation.
The decree was made in a suit for dissolution of a partner ship and the taking of accounts.
854 The execution application was filed on 4th October, 1946, and the amount stated to be due under the decree on that date was Rs. 2,30,986 and odd.
The previous execution application No 946 of 1940 filed in the Court of the 1st Class Sub Judge, Sholapur, to which the decree had been transferred for execution, was made on 24th June, 1940.
It was dismissed on 9th September, 1940, for non prosecution.
It would thus be seen that the present application was filed after the lapse of 12 years from the date of the final decree and 3 years from the date of the final order on the previous application.
To surmount the bar of limitation, the decree holder, who is the appellant before us, raised four contentions:firstly, that the final decree, which provided that the plaintiff should pay the deficit court fees on the decretal amount before the execution of the decree, was a conditional decree, and that time began to run from the date when the condition was fulfilled on 5th Decem ber, 1935, by payment; secondly, that the period occupied by the insolvency proceedings from 10th August, 1937, to 14th December, 1942, initiated by the decree holder to get the first judgment debtor Walchand Ramchand Kothari (with whom alone we are now concerned) adjudged an insolvent, should be excluded under section 14 (2) of the Limitation Act; third ly, that the period occupied by one Tendulkar, who was the creditor of the present decree holder, in seeking to execute this decree, should be deducted; and lastly, that as the judgment debtor prevented execution of the decree against the 'Prabhat ' newspaper by suppressing his ownership of the same, a fresh starting point of limitation springs up in the decree holder 's favour from the date of the discovery of the fraud.
The Subordinate Judge held that the execution applica tion was not barred, agreeing with every one of these con tentions.
On appeal to the High Court Chagla C.J. and Dixit J. reversed this decision, holding that it was not a condi tional decree, that the steps taken by Tendulkar to execute this decree were of no avail, and that the insolvency pro ceedings were for a 855 different relief altogether, so that section 14 (2) of the Limitation Act could not be invoked.
They concurred with the finding of the Subordinate Judge that the judgment debtor prevented the execution of the decree