 within 12 years by fraudulent concealment of his ownership of the 'Prabhat ' newspaper and that the twelve years ' bar of limi tation did not apply; but they held that the application was barred under article 182 of the Limitation Act, as more than three years had run from 9th September, 1940, the date of the dismissal of the previous execution application, before the present application was filed on 4th October, 1946.
Points 1 to 3 above mentioned are of no avail to the appel lant.
The decree was not a conditional one in the sense that some extraneous event was to happen on the fulfilment of which alone it could be executed.
The payment of court fees on the amount found due was entirely in the power of the decree holder and there was nothing to prevent him from paying it then and there; it was a decree capable of execu tion from the very date it was passed.
There could be no exclusion of the time occupied by the insolvency proceedings which clearly was not for the purpose of obtaining the same relief.
The relief sought in insolvency is obviously differ ent from the relief sought in the execution application.
In the former, an adjudication of the debtor as insolvent is sought as preliminary to the vesting of all his estate and the administration of it by the Official Receiver or the Official Assignee, as the case may be, for the benefit of all the creditors; but in the latter, the money due is sought to be realized for the benefit of the decree holder alone, by processes like attachment of property and arrest of person.
It may be that ultimately in the insolvency proceedings the decreeholder may be able to realize his debt wholly or in part, but this is a mere consequence or result.
Not only is the relief of a different nature in the two proceedings but the procedure is also widely divergent.
The steps taken by the appellant 's creditor Tendulkar to attach this decree and put it in execution do not save limitation.
His darkhast for attachment of the 856 present decree was on 3rd April, 1940, and for execution of the present decree was on 1st February, 1944, more than 3 years from 9th September, 1940, which is the date of the dismissal of the appellant 's prior execution petition.
The learned Advocate for the appellant therefore devot ed most of his argument to the fourth contention set forth above.
That the judgment debtor respondent suppressed his ownership of the 'Prabhat ' newspaper and fraudulently pre vented the execution of the decree against this property has been found by both the Courts below, as stated already.
It was strenuously urged that the fraud so found is not merely fraud as broadly interpreted under section 48 (2), Civil Procedure Code, but also strict or concealed fraud within the meaning of section 18 of the Limitation Act.
In this connection, it is as well to set out very briefly the nature of the concealment and the steps taken by the judgment debtor to achieve the same.
He purchased the 'Prabhat ' newspaper with all its assets and goodwill from its previ ous owner one Purushottam Mahadev in 1938 under the letter marked Exhibit 129.
He opened current accounts in several banks, and gave the name of one Abhyankar as the owner of the paper, but he was himself operating on those accounts.
One Rajwade, a friend of the judgment debtor, was shown as the printer and publisher of the paper.
Even in his supplementary written statement flied in Court in answer to the present execution, marked Exhibit 88 (page 53 of the printed book), the defendant asserted in paragraph 2 that he became