 the owner of the newspaper only in April,/944, and that previously he had no ownership or right in the same.
He did not go into the witness box to refute the allegation that he was the owner ever since the purchase of the paper in 1938 and that he opened accounts in the names of other people on which he was operating for his own benefit.
On these facts, the Subordinate Judge found as follows : "I think on the whole that the evidence establish es beyond doubt that the judgment debtor had concealed his proprietary interest in his newspaper called 857 Prabhat ' from June, 1938, to April, 1944.
The only purpose for which the property could have been concealed in this way was probably the fear that the decree holder would pounce upon it if he came to know about it.
The decree holder came to know of this fraud after April, 1944; for thereafter the judgment debtor made an open declaration that the newspaper belonged to him.
I think therefore that this fraud has prevented the decree holder from executing the decree against some property of the judgment debtor.
" In this finding, the High Court concurred.
After referring to the stratagem adopted by the judgment debtor in Bhagu Jetha vs Malick Bawasaheb(1), the learned Judges observed: "In this case, in our opinion, the stratagem is much more dishonest.
The attempt on the part of the judgment debtor was to conceal his property, to deny its ownership and to put forward a mere benamidar as the real owner of that property.
In our opinion, therefore, the execution of the decree is not barred under section 48.
The 'judgment debtor has, by fraud, prevented the execution of the decree within 12 years before the date of the application for execution by the decree holder and therefore the decree under consideration is capable of being executed.
" On the strength of this concurrent finding, Mr. Krish naswami Iyengar for the appellant argued that the fraud fell within the scope of section 18 of the Limitation Act and that if it were so, he was out of the woods, inasmuch as the proper article to apply would be article 181 of the/imita tion Act.
The right to apply accrued to him when the fraud became known to him in or about June, 1946. 'Till then he was kept by the fraud from the knowledge of his right to make an application against the property.
Law does not require him to make futile successive applications in execu tion, in the face of this fraud.
He was not in a position to seek even the arrest of the judgment debtor as he had got himself declared in the insolvency proceedings as agriclu turist." within the meaning of the Deccan (1) I.L.R. 110 858 Agriculturists ' Relief Act.
alleging falsely that he was not in receipt of any income by way of salary or remuneration from the newspaper concerned and that he was mainly depend ent on the income of his family lands for his maintenance.
There can be no question that the conduct of the re spondent was fraudulent within the meaning of section 48 (2) of the Civil Procedure Code.
Though benami transactions are common in this country and there is nothing per se wrong in a judgment debtor purchasing property in another man 's name, we have to take into account all the circumstances attending the purchase and his subsequent conduct for find ing out whether it was part of a fraudulent scheme on his part to prevent the judgment creditor from realizing the fruits of his decree.
Fraudulent motive or design is not capable of direct proof in most cases; it can only be in ferred.
The facts before us here leave no room for doubt that the