 true object of the judgmentdebtor was to prevent the execution of the decree against the ' Prabhat ' news paper Which he had purchased.
Other persons were shown as the printer and the publisher of the newspaper, while Abhy ankar was mentioned as the proprietor, The judgement debtor, was, however, operating on those accounts for his own benefit.
In the Insolvency Court, he set up the plea that he was an agriculturist, by suppressing the truth about his ownership of the paper, and pretending that his income was mainly, if not solely, from the family lands.
He kept up this show till April 1944, when probably he felt that he was sale from the reach of the judgment creditor.
Even in his answer to the execution application, out of which this appeal has arisen, he had the hardihood to assert that he was not the owner of the paper till April 1944.
It should also be remembered that he did not get into the witness box to explain what other necessity there was for all this camouflage, except it be to cheat the appellant of his dues under the decree.
Mr. Setalvad, the learned Attorney General, who appeared for the respondent, pointed out that there 859 was no benami purchase and that the holding out of Abhyankar as the proprietor of the ' Prabhat ' did not amount to any false representation or misrepresentation to the judgment creditor, as the accounts on which reliance was placed were accounts opened in the banks and were not ordinarily avail able for inspection by third parties.
This line of reasoning is hardly convincing, when we have to consider whether what is attributed to the judgment debtor does not amount to a fraudulent scheme or device for preventing execution of the decree that had been passed against him for a very large sum of money.
In the very nature of things, fraud is secret in its origin or inception and in the means adopted for its success.
Each circumstance by itself may not mean much, but taking all of them together, they may reveal a fraudulent or dishonest plan.
It would be convenient to set out here in extenso sec tion 48, Civil Procedure Code, and section 18 of the Limita tion Act before we proceed to consider the soundness of the arguments advanced by both sides in support of the positions they have taken up.
Section 48, Civil Procedure Code (which corresponds to section 230 of the Code of 1882), is in these terms: " 48.
(1) Where an application to execute a decree not being a decree granting an injunction has been made, no order for the execution of the same decree shall be made upon any fresh application presented after the expiration of 12 years from (a) the date of the decree sought to be executed, or (b) where the decree or any subsequent order directs, any payment of money or the delivery of any property to be made at a certain date or at recurring periods the date of the default in making the payment of delivery in respect of which the applicant seeks to execute the decree.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed (a) to preclude the Court from ordering the executior of a decree upon an application presented after the expiration of the said term of twelve years, where the 860 judgment debtor has by fraud or force prevented the execu tion of the decree at some time within twelve years immedi ately before the date of the application; or (b) to limit or otherwise affect the operation of arti cle 183 of the first Schedule to the Indian Limitation Act, 1908.
" Section 18 of the Limitation Act, 1908, runs thus: " 18.
Where any person having a right to institute a suit or make an application has, by means of fraud, been kept