 from the knowledge of such right or of the title on which it is founded, or where any document necessary to establish such right has been fraudulently concealed from him, the time limited for instituting a suit or making an application (a) against the person guilty of the fraud or accessory thereto, or (b) against any person claiming through him other wise than in good faith and for a valuable consideration, shall be computed from the time when the fraud first became known to the person injuriously affected thereby, or, in the case of the concealed document, when he first had the means of producing it or compelling its production." Whether the fraud of the judgment debtor should actually prevent the execution of the decree or whether it is enough if the fraud has been committed without esulting in actual prevention is a question on which there has been some diver gence of opinion in the decided cases.
The former view was taken in an early Madras case Kannu Pillay vs Chellathammal and ) Others(1) and receives support from the decision reported in Sri Raja Venkata Lingama Nayanim Bahadur Varu and Another vs Raja Inuganti Rajaopala Venkata Narasimha Rayanim Bahadur Varu and five Others(2)to which our learned brother Mr. Justice Patanjali Sastri was a party.
The latter view ( (1) [1898] M.I.J. Mad.
861 is indicated in M.R.M.A.S.P. Ramathan Chefliar vs Mahalingam Chetti(1) by a Bench of which Sir Madhavan Nair J. was a member.
It is not necessary to determine which view is correct, as we have here definite findings of both the Courts below that there was fraud preventing the execution of the decree within the meaning of Section 48 of the Civil Procedure Code.
The appellant thus escapes the bar of the 12 years ' period and he has a fresh starting point of limitation from the date of the fraud for section 48 of the Civil Procedure Code.
In other words, the decree holder has another 12 years within which he can execute his decree.
Having thus got over the difficulty in his way under section 48 of the Code of Civil Procedure, he has next to meet the objection under the Limitation Act.
On behalf of the appellant, it was urged that section 18 of the Limita tion Act applied to the facts and that the right to apply accrued to the appellant when the fraud by the judgment debtor became known to him in 1946.
No reliance was placed on section 18 of the Limitation Act in the courts below and no reference to it is found in the grounds of appeal to this court.
It is however mentioned for the first time in the appellant 's statement of the case.
If the facts proved and found as established are sufficient to make out a case of fraud within the meaning of section 18, this objection may not be serious, as the question of the applicability of the section will be only a question of law and such a question could be raised at any stage of the case and also in the final court of appeal.
The following obser vations of Lord Watson in Connecticut Fire Insurance Co. vs Kavanagh (2) are relevant.
He said: "When a ques tion of law is raised for the first time in a court of last resort upon the construction of a document or upon facts either admitted or proved beyond controversy, it is not only competent but expedient in the interests of justice to entertain the plea.
The expediency of (1) 1.L.R. (2) 862 adopting that course may be doubted when the plea cannot be disposed of without deciding nice questions of fact in considering which the