 court of ultimate review is placed in a much less advantageous position than the courts below." Mr. Setalvad, however, urged that the appellant should not be allowed to rely on section 18 now for the first time and that even if fraud within the meaning of that section had been pleaded the respondent might have adduced counter evidence by himself going into the witness box or otherwise.
According to him, the approach to the question of fraud under section 18 of the Limitation Act is quite different from the approach under section 48 of the Civil Procedure Code.
There may be cases where the fraud alleged and found is fraud in the wider sense of the term within the meaning of section 48 (2) of the Civil Procedure Code, but the same facts do not amount to fraud as strictly construed under section 18 of the Limitation Act.
The fact that the decree holder in the lower courts relied on section 48, Civil Procedure Code, only does not prevent him from relying on section 18 of the Limitation Act if the facts necessary to be established for bringing in the assistance of section 18 of the Limitation Act are admitted, or proved.
It is not disputed that the fraud contemplated by section 18 of the Limitation Act is of a different type from the fraud contem plated by section 48 (2) of the Civil Procedure Code.
The wording of section 18 which requires the fraud "to prevent knowledge of the right to make the application" is neces sarily of a different nature from the fraud which prevents the decree holder from making an application for execution.
Conceding to the appellant the right to rely on section 18 of the Limitation Act even at this late stage, let us see if it is really of any help to him on the facts found.
The section has been quoted already.
It speaks of the right to institute a suit or make an application which by means of fraud has been kept from the knowledge of the person having the right or the title on which it is founded.
The right to apply for 863 execution of a decree like the one before us is a single and indivisible right, and not a composite right consisting of different smaller rights and based on the decree holder 's remedies to proceed against the person of the judgment debtor or his properties, moveable and immoveable.
Togive such a meaning would be to split up the single right into parcels and to enable the decree holder to contend that while his right to proceed against a particular item of property is barred, it is not barred in respect of other items.
We would then be face to face with different periods of limitation as regards one and the same decree.
An inter pretation which leads to this result is prima facie un sound.
Both sides agreed that this is the true position, but they reached it from slightly varying standpoints.
According to the appellant, fraud even with reference to one property gives him a further extension of 12 years under section 48 (2) as regards the whole decree and it is not necessary for him to show that he had proceeded against the other properties of the judgment debtor.
According to the respondent, the fraud must consist in the concealment of the knowledge of the decree holder 's right to apply for execution of the decree and it is not enough to prove or establish that the fraud prevented him from ' proceeding against a specific item.
The two contentions, lead to the same conclusion about the indivisibility of the decree, but along different lines.
In our opinion, the facts necessary to establish fraud under section 18 of the Limitation Act are neither admitted nor proved in the present case.
Concealing from a person the knowledge of his right to apply for execution of a decree is undoubtedly different from preventing him from exercising his right, of which he has