 knowledge.
Section 18 of the Limitation Act postulates the former alternative.
To read it as referring to an application for execution to proceed against a particular property would be destructive of the oneness of the decree and would lead to multiplicity of periods of limitation.
It is true that articles 181 and 182 of the Limitation Act and section 48, 864 Civil Procedure Code, should be read together.
The articles expressly refer to the section.
But they are independent or parallel provisions, different in their scope and object.
As held in Kalyanasundaram Pillai vs Vaithilinga Vanniar (1) section 48 (2) extends the 12 years ' period of closure by a further period of similar duration but the necessity of resort to article 182 is not thereby obviated.
The decree holder must have been taking steps to keep the decree alive and the only circumstance that could relieve him of this obligation is the existence of fraud under section 18 of the Limitation Act.
The learned Advocate of the appellant asked how it could be possible for him to apply in execution when there was the fraud and whether the law contemplated that, even though the fraud prevented execution of the decree, he was to go on filing useless or futile applications every three years merely for keeping the decree alive.
The answer is simple.
The fraud pleaded namely suppression of owner ship of the 'Prabhat ' newspaper, did not conceal from him his right to make an application for execution of the de cree.
Indeed, the suppression, which began in 1938, did not prevent the decree holder from applying for execution in 19 10; and in his answers in cross examination, he has adimitted that there were other properties to his knowledge against which he could have sought execution, viz., deposits in several banks of the judgment debtor 's monies but stand ing in his wife 's or daughter 's names, life insurance poli cies for which premia were being paid by him, law books written and published by him, movable properties in the house at Poona etc.
As a matter of fact, the appellant 's present application seeks execution against several of these properties.
Nothing prevented him therefore ,from seeking such execution within 3 years of the dismissal of his prior application in 1940.
Even with reference to the 'Prabhat ', all that the decree holder states is that as he had no evidence to prove that the concern belonged to the defendant he did not take any steps, and not that he had no (1) I,L.R. 1939 Mad.611 865 knowledge of the ownership.
To quote two sentences from his deposition: "I had suspected that defendant No. 1 was the real owner of the business all the while.
But I had no posi tive knowledge or information till 1946" . . "I could not take any step for attaching the defendant 's business till 1946 as I had no evidence to prove the defendant 's fraud till then.
" There is no obligation on the judgment debtor to post the decree holder with all details of his properties; it is the decree holder 's business to gather knowledge about the properties so that he can realise the fruits of his decree.
In dealing with this evidence, Mr. Krishnaswami lyengar relied on the Privy Council decision, Rahimbhoy vs Turner in 20 I.A. 1 and referred to the following observation of Lord Hobhouse at page "But their Lordships consider, and in this they agree with both the Courts below, that all that the appellant Rahimbhoy has done is to show that some clues and hints reached the assignee in the year 1881, which perhaps, if vigorously and acutely followed up, might