 have led to a complete knowledge of the fraud, but that there was no disclosure made which informed the mind of the assignee that the insolvent 's estate had been defrauded by Rahimbhoy of these assets in the year 1867.
" The passage cited does not apply here because the appellant admits knowledge, which is more than a mere suspicion, but states that he had no evidence to prove the defendant 's ownership.
In any event, it has not been established within the meaning of section 18 of the Limitation Act that the fraud alleged and proved kept back from him the knowledge of his right to execute the decree.
It is thus clear that the appellant cannot get the benefit of section 18 of the Limitation Act.
It was next argued on behalf of the appellant that under section 48(2) of the Civil Procedure Code, because of the fraud of the respondent the appellant got a fresh starting point of limitation for the Limitation Act also 111 866 and therefore the starting point contemplated in the third column of the schedule to the Limitation Act relating to applications for execution should be the date when the fraud was discovered by the appellant.
In other words, it was argued that the effect of section 48 was not merely to make the 12 years ' period start from the discovery of fraud for the purpose of section 48(2) of the Civil Procedure Code but also to give a fresh starting point for the schedule to the Limitation Act.
This argument cannot be accepted.
If a man is prevented from making an application, because of the fraud of the debtor, he is not necessarily prevented from knowing his right to make the application.
By the enactment of section 18, the Legislature has distinctly contemplated that for the Limitation Act the starting point is changed on the ground of fraud, only when the knowledge of the right to make the application is prevented by the fraud of the judg mentdebtor.
Having the knowledge that he had the right to make the application, if the judgment debtor prevents the decree holder from knowing the existence of certain properties against which the decree could be enforced, the case is clearly not covered by the words of section 18 of the Limitation Act.
Therefore the argument advanced on behalf of the appellant is unsound.
It was urged that the various starting points mentioned in the third column to article 182 of the Limitation Act cannot apply because none of them specify a fresh starting point for execution acquired on the ground of the fraud of the judgment debtor.
This argument, in our opinion, instead of helping the appellant, goes against him.
Such a provision in the third column in the article relating to execution of decrees is not necessary because provision for such a con tingency is made in section 18.
Affirmatively, by the inclu sion of section 18 in the Limitation Act, and, negatively, by not providing for a separate period of limitation in the case of the fraud of the judgment debtor in the third column in the articles, the Legislature has clearly indicated that unless advantage could be taken by the 867 decree holder under section 18 on the ground of the fraud of the judgment debtor, fraud does not give any other relief under the Limitation Act.
This scheme of the Legislature is not inconsistent with section 48 of the Civil Procedure Code.
The two provisions in the two Acts have to be read as related to the same subject but dealing with two differents aspects.
Without section 48 of the Civil Procedure Code a decree holder, if he made applications as required by arti cle 181 or 182 of the Limitation Act, could keep his decree alive for an indefinite period.
The Legislature, as a matter of policy, ruled that a decree of a civil court (but excluding the High Court) shall not be kept