 alive for more than 12 years, although all necessary steps are taken under the Limitation Act to keep the decree alive and operative.
That is one limit to the right of the decree holder to enforce the decree of the court.
The second limitation to his right, which is independent of the first, is that he must keep the decree alive under article 182 or 181, as the case may be.
In the case of the fraud of the judgment debtor provision is made in section 48(2) for enlarging the 12 years period prescribed under section 48.
For defeating the plea of the bar of limitation under the Limitation Act, in the case of fraud of the judgment debtor, provision is found in section 18 of the Limitation Act.
If the particu lar case of fraud set up and proved is not covered by those words, there is no protection against the same in the Limi tation Act.
Read in that way, the two legislative provi sions are neither conflicting nor overlapping; and they are capable of operating harmoniously, as they deal with different situations and circumstances.
The argument ad vanced on behalf of the appellant that because of the fraud he got not merely a fresh starting point for computing the 12 years period prescribed in section 48 ( '2,) of the Civil Procedure Code but is also entitled to an extension of the time under the Limitation Act, must therefore fail.
The second contention urged on behalf of the appellant that because in the third column of article 182 868 fraud is not mentioned, the case is covered by article 181 does not also appear to be sound.
The third column in article 182 prescribes the starting point of limitation under different specified circumstances.
It does not, and indeed need not, mention the ground of fraud because if fraud of the kind against which the Limitation Act contem plates relief, as prescribed in section 18 of the Limitation Act, is established, the time is automatically altered by operation of that section.
If the case does not fall under that section, no relief is permitted under the Limitation Act and the starting point for computing the period must be as mentioned in the third column, irrespective of the question of fraud.
In our opinion, therefore, the conten tion that because of the fraud established in the present case under section 48(2) of the Civil Procedure Code, the appellant gets a fresh starting point of limitation under article 182 of the Limitation Act is unacceptable.
The appellant relied on the general principle of juris prudence that fraud stops or suspends the running of time and that it should be applied in his favour, apart from section 18 of the Limitation Act.
Rules of equity have no application.
where there are definite statutory provisions specifying the grounds on the basis of which alone the stoppage or suspension of running of time can arise.
While the courts necessarily are astute in checkmating or fighting fraud, it should be equally borne in mind that statutes of limitation are statutes of repose.
For the reasons given above we concur in the conclusion reached by the High Court and dismiss the appeal with costs.
Appeal dismissed.
